For a long time, people have used different ways of understanding things. In this way, people can understand things, create things using their understanding, and develop new knowledge. This has been true for a long time: things can exist or not exist. Both can be true at different times. This is the way of understanding that has been around for a long time.

But now, some experts are questioning this view: maybe it doesn't exist. Another way of thinking about it is that things either exist and have properties, or they don't exist at all. This is very strange to many people, but this is not a new way of thinking! It has been around for a while. But what does this mean? Can something exist and have properties at the same time? To understand this way of thinking, let's learn about the following: the method of creating something can produce something new. This is the method of creation. Look:

There is something; you want to know the color of it. It can be red, yellow, white, black, blue. It can be many colors or just one. This is how color is created.

Creating a method produces only one thing, and it is the final result. Look:

There is something; you want to know the size of it. It can be big or small. This is how size is created.

The way of understanding in the past was the method of producing the final result. Something can exist but be powerless, or it can exist and be powerful at the same time, or it can exist and not be powerful at the same time. This is crazy!

What can exist and be powerful at the same time? Look. I say, "This statement is powerful." Is this statement existing or powerful? If it exists, it is powerful. If it is powerful, it exists. In the past, this way of thinking was a mess. This way of thinking means that it exists and is powerful. There is no mess.

If someone does not understand this way of thinking, it can be very confusing for them. But it is strong and can fix the mess of the past way of understanding.

What can be removed from existence? Look. I say, "A person has a new shirt in the future." People cannot know the future because it has not come yet. It is not existing, but it is not powerless. In its existence, it is removed.

Experts who understand this way of thinking talk a lot about it, but this way of thinking is very different from the past way of understanding. People who understand do not underestimate the value of new ways of thinking. This way of thinking can improve the old way of understanding. The debate about different ways of understanding continues.