Do you know the meaning of the nonsense language used in Lewis Carroll's "Jabberwocky" poem? It's a very powerful and famous piece of nonsense literature. Many people know it, but it's unique to nonsense language.

In it, there are many crazy words that don't make sense. They're crazy because no one knows their meaning. It's a language of non-language, which Lewis Carroll created in his work!

Due to its great popularity, many people have tried to translate it into other languages, into Sonko language, Losi language, and many other languages. Nowadays, I want to translate it into Toki Pona. In my opinion, this will be very fun.

The first thing I need to do is find a name for it. Oh! Maybe I can create a sound for it in Toki Pona. In that case, it will be called "Sapojoki." I wanted to call it "Sapowoki," but the sound "wo" is not allowed in Toki Pona. (In the official Toki Pona, the sounds "wu," "wo," "ji," and "ti" are not allowed.) So, "Sapojoki" is its name.

But I want new readers to be able to understand its language. The name "Jabberwocky" in English is like an animal sound. People see the name and think, "Oh, that's an animal!" So, I'll change "Sapojoki" to "Sowejoki." Maybe people will feel the same thing: "Oh, that's an animal!"

(By the way, "Sowejaki" is also a little like "Sowejoki." It's good because many people call "Jabberwocky" a "nonsense language." So, its meaning is similar and good.)

In the first line of the poem, it says "'twas brillig." But "brillig" is not an English word. What does it mean?

Lewis Carroll said "'twas brillig" means "it was evening." So, I can change it to "tenpo sun." "Sun" is not a word, like "brillig." Also, "sun" is funny in Toki Pona. Maybe it comes from the word "suno" in Toki Pona. That's good!

The most important thing is that people who read my translation will understand it and feel it's fun. So, I will try to make many words sound funny and translate them well.

Do you see "gyre and gimble" in the poem? It means "to spin and whirl." I think that's very funny to say. Maybe you can say "li misu li musu" in Toki Pona! "Musi" is the word for "fun." So, I changed the sound of "muse" to "musi." Maybe that's good.

Also, you can see "Jubjub bird" in the poem. I think "Jubjub" sounds like a bird's sound. That's good too! Maybe I can translate it to "waso Mumu." Other people might feel the same thing.

Lastly, there's a "Bandersnatch" in the poem. People in English think it's a fierce creature that attacks with force. "Lanpan" in Toki Pona means "to rush." That's good too! I'll change it to "Palapan." Its sound is similar, and its meaning is funny too.