"In the land of Olako (Oracle) in the land of Alisona (Arizona, U.S.), there is a large building with no water or other things, it is a stone-looking white building. However, inside it has many things. Inside, there are plants! Many plants and in another part of this white building is a second greenhouse.

The first floor: This is visible on the surface of the second greenhouse. You can see large stone boxes; they have many plants. Next to them is the control room for this building. One can go inside and learn about the knowledge of the building.
The second floor: This is visible inside the second greenhouse. It is a land of many plants, and this land is for the building.

Note: This building houses many different plants.

But why does someone want so many different plants? The answer may be this: many different plants can provide air to the building. When there is air, there is movement. This can create a new ecosystem and support the life of many things.

But this is not all. Why does someone want to build a large greenhouse with many plants and keep it running with machines? The answer may be this: the person wants to learn about the things in the world. This building can simulate a small world, and people can learn about the world through this simulation. Therefore, this building provides knowledge about water cycles, plants, and ecosystems.

The first floor: This is visible on the surface of the second greenhouse. This land is a land of water plants. Plants in this land control the water.

The second floor: This is visible inside the second greenhouse. This is a small land of small plants.

Note: The plants in this land control the water.

The building was built in 1991. A group went there and asked: Can someone live in this building? This question is very interesting. If someone can live in this building, they can live on the moon. This group went there to learn more.

The group included Roy Walford, Jane Poynter, Taber MacCallum, Mark Nelson, Sally Silverstone, Abigail Alling, Mark Van Thillo, and Linda Leigh. They did many things and learned many things. In this building, what did they do?

They grew many plants! They grew many different plants, and they could eat them, breathe the air they produced, and learn from them.

Different plants can help create a new world. They can help support the life of many things.