1233

                                       
       astrodonunt


ni li toki pi tenpo pini mi. mi pali e toki ni. tenpo pini pini pini la ma ni lon ala. ale li pilin li lape. ale li lape la jan lili lili Elu li pali e ma. ona mute li tawa e kiwen lili lili pi kule ale. (taso, kiwen mute ni li suli tawa jan lili lili Elu.) nena mute li lon. taso ona mute li pali kin li sona e ni: ona mute li pali e ma pi lon ale. tenpo kama la, kiwen lili lili li lon insa ale. ala li lon insa insa pi kiwen lili lili, li jo e ale. jan lili lili Elu li tawa e kiwen lili lili... li kalama. kalama pi ona ale li lon insa pi kiwen lili lili ale. tenpo ni la, kalama pi jan lili lili Elu li lon insa sina. ala en ale li lon insa pi soweli ale. ala en ale li lon.







[This is a story of my pats.  I made this story. :A long, long time ago, this land did not exist. All thought and slept. While all thought and slept, the little people - the Elfs - created the land. They moved many tiny rainbow stones. (However, these stones were large to the Elfs.) There were many hills, but they kept working, and knew that they were making a land of all life. In the future, the small stones would exist in everything. Nothingness resided between the stones, and held everything. The little Elfs moved the stones... and sang. All of their sound is in all of the small stones. Now, the sound of the Elfs is in you. Both nothing and everything is in all creatures. Nothingness and Everything exists.Science:The Elfs are the forces that move and shift the atoms (stones) and cause them to become stable (energy to get over the hill, reaction, stable). The sound is the energy in everything. So you see, creation myths - if viewed from a different perspective - could be quite revealing! Perhaps all of Science has already been discovered and passed down in the ways us Humans remember easily - through songs and stories. :]



SHOW MORE



 COMMENTS :: 4



 Add a public comment...
 Top comments





 John CLIFFORD1 year ago
'tenpo pini pini pini la ma ni LI lon ala. ale li pilin li lape. ale li lape la jan lili lili Elu li pali e ma. ona mute li tawa e kiwen lili lili pi kule ale. (taso, kiwen mute ni li suli tawa jan lili lili Elu.) nena mute li lon. taso ona mute li pali kin [English suggest 'awen pali'] li sona e ni: ona mute li pali e ma pi lon ale. tenpo kama la, kiwen lili lili li lon insa ale. ala li lon insa PI insa pi kiwen lili lili,[but English suggests something other than "at the middle of the insides"; we don't have a good word for "between" and just showing a plural isn't enough here.  No suggestions.] li jo e ale. jan lili lili Elu li tawa e kiwen lili lili... li kalama. kalama pi ona ale li lon insa pi kiwen lili lili ale. tenpo ni la, kalama pi jan lili lili Elu li lon insa sina. ala en ale li lon insa pi soweli ale. ala en ale li lon.' pona.  toki ni li ike pali taso sina pali pona e ona. ﻿
Show less
Reply1  

       

        astrodonunt1 year ago
       'ma ni li lon ala' - Edited in now, said it but didn't write it for some reason. 'awen pali' - Also edited in now. 'insa pi insa pi __' I edited in that version. I've often been a bit iffy with using 'pi' like that juuust in case it's wrong. toki sina li pona. sina pona :)﻿
       Reply  



 Lucas Santos1 year ago (edited)
I love it! nice! i'll start learn pona toki in this week, how time you take for study toki pona? :D﻿
Reply  

       

        astrodonunt1 year ago
       About a month, but that was with a big gap in-between. So yeah, less than a month :) It's really easy since it's so small :) I'm glad you like my video!﻿
       Reply  



