1275

Joshua Birns-Sprague

mi ante e sitelen musi tawa toki pona. mi wile e ni: ona li pona tawa sina. jan Lanton Ju (Langston Hughes) li jan sitelen nanpa wan.
_ jan lili moli _
ni li tawa jan lili moli.jan lili pimeja en jan lili walo li moli kin.
jan suli li jo e mani mute.ona li awen lon.ona li awen moku e telo loje pimeja e mani jelo kiwen.ona li pilin ala tawa jan lili moli.kulupu pali li kama wan la jan lili li moli lon ma telo pi ma Misisipi.kulupu pali li kama wan la jan lili li moli lon nasin pi ma tomo Sikako.kulupu pali li kama wan la jan lili li moli lon ma kasi kili pi ma Kalisonja.jan walo en jan Pilipina en jan pimeja en jan Mesiko en jan lili ante mute li moli.ona li wile ala kute e nimi pakala.ona li wile ala jo e mani ike.ona li wile ala e mute lili.ona li wile ala pilin e ala.
jan sona suli li awen lon li sitelen e nimi mute e lipu mute.ona li ko e jan lili moli kepeken ilo sitelen ona.jan suli mute li utala e jan lili moli kepeken luka wawa.ona li pakala e jan lili moli kepeken nimi suli en palisa en kiwen lili.pali ni li pilin ike e kulupu.taso jan lili moli li wawa e kulupu.ona li sama kiwen wawa lon insa pi telo loje kulupu.jan suli li jo e mani mute.ona li wile ala e ni: kulupuli moku e kiwen wawa pi jan lili molili kama sona e wawa kulupuli kute e jan Ankelo Entonli wan.
jan lili moli o!tawa sina la sitelen kiwen suli li lon seme?ona li lon insa pi pilin mi taso.ken la sijelo sina li weka lon ma telo anu tomo pi poki jan anu ma kasi anu telo linja sama jan Linke.taso tenpo kama la noka tawa pi kulupu mute li sewi e sitelen ale pi olin wawa kin tawa sina.sina sona pilin e ni.luka pimeja en luka walo li kama wan.kepeken kon wawa pi jan lili moli la kalama musi pi open sin li sewi li awen a.A







[Joshua Birns-Sprague
I translated this poem to toki pona.  I hope that you like it.  Langston Hughes is a first class writer.
Dead Children_
This is for the dead children.
Black children and white children are also dead.
Adults have much money.
They live one.
They continue to devour black blood and hard yellow money.
They don't feel for the dead children.
If a group of workers unionize, children die in the swamps of Mississippi.
If a group of workers unionize, children die in the streets of Chicago.
If a group of workers unionize, children die in the fields of California
Whites and Filipinos and blacks and Mexicans and many other children die.
They don't need to hear the destructive words.
They don't need to have the evil money.
They don't need small amounts.
They don't need to feel nothing.
Professors continue on and write many words and many books.
They grind dead children with their typewriters.
Very important people fight dead children with strong hands.
They destroy dead children with big words and guns and bullets.This work makes the masses sad.
But dead children strengthen the masses.
They are like strong stones in the blood of the masses.
Important men have a lot of money.
The do not want the masses
To eat the strong stones of the dead children
And learn the strength of the group
And hear Angelo Herndon
And unite.
Dead Children!
To you, what great monuments are there?
They are inside my feelings only.
Maybe your body is away in a swamp or a prison or a field or a river like Lieibknecht.
But in the future, moving feet of many groups wll raise all the symbols of really strong love  for you.
You know this emotionally.
Black hands and white hands become one.
Using the strong wind of dead children, the song of a new beginning will rise and continue!










Kids who die
By Langston Hughes

This is for the kids who die,
Black and white,
For kids will die certainly.
The old and rich will live on awhile,
As always,
Eating blood and gold,
Letting kids die.
Kids will die in the swamps of Mississippi
Organizing sharecroppers
Kids will die in the streets of Chicago
Organizing workers
Kids will die in the orange groves of California
Telling others to get together
Whites and Filipinos,
Negroes and Mexicans,
All kinds of kids will die
Who don't believe in lies, and bribes, and contentment
And a lousy peace.
Of course, the wise and the learned
Who pen editorials in the papers,
And the gentlemen with Dr. in front of their names
White and black,
Who make surveys and write books
Will live on weaving words to smother the kids who die,
And the sleazy courts,
And the bribe-reaching police,
And the blood-loving generals,
And the money-loving preachers
Will all raise their hands against the kids who die,
Beating them with laws and clubs and bayonets and bullets
To frighten the people -- 
For the kids who die are like iron in the blood of the people -- 
And the old and rich don't want the people
To taste the iron of the kids who die,
Don't want the people to get wise to their own power,
To believe an Angelo Herndon, or even get together
Listen, kids who die -- 
Maybe, now, there will be no monument for you
Except in our hearts
Maybe your bodies'll be lost in a swamp
Or a prison grave, or the potter's field,
Or the rivers where you're drowned like Leibknecht
But the day will come -- 
You are sure yourselves that it is coming -- 
When the marching feet of the masses
Will raise for you a living monument of love,
And joy, and laughter,
And black hands and white hands clasped as one,
And a song that reaches the sky -- 
The song of the life triumphant
Through the kids who die.]



