319

ale li awen lon nena.
sewi li pimeja 
tawa ma
la kasi linja li pilin e kon. 
lon ma ante la tomo li suno.
oko mi li mun tawa ona
li lili lon insa pi pimeja suli.
luka pi jan tu li pilin
e ma 
e kon
e pimeja
lon nena lon pimeja sewi. 
mi tu li toki e ala
la nimi mi li jan olin.

[All is calm on the hills,
When the sky is dark 
Toward earth,
The stalks feel the breeze.
In another place, the house is light.
My eyes are moons for it 
And small inside deep darkness.
The hands of two people feel
The earth
And the air
And the dark
On the hill in the dark sky.
If we two say nothing
My name is lover]

[author's translation:
Everything is still on the hilltop.
The sky seeps darkness into the ground
As the long grass traces the breeze.
Elsewhere, the houses are shining.
My eyes must seem like stars to them,
So small and enveloped in night.
There are two, and the dirt on their hands,
And the air on their hands, 
And the dark,
On the hill. In the black. The holy black.
We talk of nothing
And in our words, 
My name 
Is 'lover'.]

[Further notes:

Ruth Ordare so "lon ma ante la tomo li suno. / oko mi li mun tawa ona" was something I had a really hard time translating back and I think your version was definitely better than my English one. It's hard to capture the double meanings of suno/mun as sun/moon and light/stars without being clunky

Ruth Ordare And then there's the "lon pimeja sewi" bit that means both "the dark of the sky" and "holy black"


Ruth Ordare and the last two lines of "mi tu li toki e ala / la nimi mi li jan olin." (I think your translation was brilliant) are hard because there's the translation we both went for but then you could also read them as "and when we talk of nothing / our words are lovers"

  Marie Elliott Gah, might have found another way to read part of it!
  sewi li pimeja / tawa ma / la kasi linja li pilin e kon.
  I first read this kind of like "As the sky unfurls in darkness over the land, a breeze sweeps the grass below" (being very very loose here).
  But if you stick a full stop after pimeja, it's more like, "The sky above falls to shadow. In the land's subtle motions, the blades of grass dance beneath the breeze." (again being -extremely- loose with the English interpretation here!)
  Hehe maybe I'm going a bit far here. This poem is beautiful!]



