327


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Joshua Birns-Sprague
25 mins
nasin pi sitelen lawa li ijo wawa li ijo ala pona



Dominick DiMercurio II mi sona ala.

Joshua Birns-Sprague ma mute la kulupu lawa li pali e sitelen lawa. ona li wile e ni: kulupu anpa li kute e sitelen lawa. jan anpa li kute ala e sitelen lawa la jan wawa pi kulupu lawa li pali tawa ni: jan anpa li kute e sitelen lawa. jan wawa pi kulupu lawa li ken luka e jan anpa li ken poki e jan anpa.
ni ale en mute li nasin pi sitelen lawa.

  Paco Zonzeani nasin ante li lon li mute ala. sina pilin ala pilin sama ?

Joshua Birns-Sprague ma la sitelen lawa li mute, taso nasin pi sitelen lawa li wan.

ken la nasin tu li lon. jan anpa li lon nasin wan. jan mani li lon nasin ante.

  Piotr Mittelstaedt > jan wawa li toki e nimi "ijo li pona" la toki ona li [pana e] lawa. 
  jan pona li toki e nimi "ijo li pona" la toki ona li pona. <
  
  
John Clifford 'nasin lawa li pali tawa wawa li pali ala e pona
Marie Elliott  (pali pi) nasin lawa li (ijo) pali pi wawa taso



["legality is a matter of power, not a matter of justice."
(NOT "The method of writing laws is a powerful thing and not a good one.")
"The procedures of written law are a matter of power and not of goodness
I don't know/understand.
In many countries, the government makes the laws.  They want the underclass to obey the laws.  If a proletarian does not obey the law, the strong men of the government acts so that the proletarian obeys the law.  The strong men of the government can grab the proletarian and can imprison the proletarian.
All this and more is legality (the process of laws).
There are other processes but not many.  Do you agree?
In some place, there are many laws.  But legality is a unity.
Maybe there are two paths.  The proletarian is one one path. The rich man is on the other path.
If a strong mans says "A thing is good", his utterance is the law/makes the law.  
If a good/just man says "A thing is good", his utterance is good/justice.
The system of laws works for the powerful, and does not make good/justice.
(Doing)the system of laws is (a thing) working for the powerful only.]
