396

Ruth Ordare;

"kulupu mi li pali e toki sin kepeken nasin ni: mi ale li toki e wile la toki li kama kepeken nasin pi wile kulupu. 

mi la tenpo ni li pona mute tawa toki ni! kalama ona en sitelen tu wan ona en nasin toki lili ona en nimi mute lili li lon kepeken nasin taso pi toki kulupu! 

ni li lon. taso, mi wile pini e toki ni la mi mute o pali e ijo mute! tenpo ni li tenpo pi ante pi nasin toki. jan li ken toki e ijo ante. ijo sin li pona tawa kulupu la toki li ante. nimi pi toki ni li kama kepeken nasin ni! o pali pona e nimi lon poka pi kulupu ni! 

tenpo ni li pona tawa jan sin. o kama! kulupu ni li jo e lipu sona mute li toki pona tawa jan sin. 

o kama tawa toki ni! o ante e toki ni! o musi! tenpo la ante mute ni li suli tawa toki ni! musi a!"

[My group is making a new langauge, using this method: When we all state our desires, the language happens  by group consensus.  In my opinion, now is a very good time for this language. Its sound and its three writings and its little grammar and its few words exist, using only the method of group discussion.
This exists.  But I we want to finish this language, let us do many things!  Now is the time for changing the grammar.  People can talk about changes.  If the group likes some new things, the language changes.  The words of this language came by this means.  Make well the words beside this group.  Now, thanks to new people! Come! Thsi group has many informative pages and speaks well to new people.
Come to this language.  Change this language.  Have fun.  Sometime, these many changes are important to this language.  Fun!


  
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[Dominick DiMercurio II  original announcement
I wish to plug yet again the Democratic Conlang, because I believe that is an exciting time in our group's history. After gestating our conlang for four months, I am proud to say that our group has completed the language's phonology, made three official orthographies, crafted a foundation for the grammar, and built a vocabulary of a few dozen words all through democratic processes with pluralistic aims. That said, there is still plenty of work left to do! We will now be entering a week of protests where changes to the language can be suggested, and if all goes well, the week after we will be finally voting on the language's official name. It is never too late to join the demlang -- there are many resources where you can learn about our procedures and language, and there are many members who would be happy to answer your questions. I highly encourage you to join in this very historic moment of the demlang as I feel like the events of the next two weeks may very well shape the future of our group and our language.]]

  
