549

‎Zackary Hess‎totoki pona

lon la mute pi kule. ni li ike: jan li sona e nimi mute mute. jan pi toki pona li kepeken e ni: laso, jelo, loje. ni li pona.kule mute li jo e nimi sama li jo e nimi "loje". seli ante pi moku kasi li loje. telo insa jan li loje. suno pi wile lape li loje.kule li sama lili. kule li sama ala.
nimi pi sona li sama e nim ipi  kule. sona mute mute li lon. ni li ike: jan mute li sona e nimipi  mute mute.lon la toki pona li pona. toki pona li jo e nimi pi mute lili.
sona mute li jo e nimi "telo".lon la telo moku la telo pi supa anpa la telo pi jan mute.


549a
‎Zackary Hess‎totoki pona
kule mute li lon. ni li ike: jan li sona e nimi pi mute mute. jan pi toki pona li kepeken e ni: `laso', `jelo', `loje'. ni li pona.kule mute li jo e nimi sama li jo e nimi "loj"e. seli pi ante pi moku kasi li loje. telo pi lon insa jan li loje. suno pi lon tenpo pi wile lape li loje.kule li sama lili. kule li sama ala.
nimi sona li sama  nimi kule. sona pi mute mute li lon. ni li ike: jan mute li sona e nimi pi mute mute.lon la toki pona li pona. toki pona li jo e nimi pi mute lili.
sona mute li jo e nimi "telo":telo moku, telo pi ma pi supa anpa, telo pi jan mute.



[There are many colors.  It is complicated that people know many words. Toki pona people use these : "blue", "yellow", "red"  This is simple.
Many colors have the same name, have the name "red":  The fire that changes vegetable meals is red, Human blood is red, The sun as it goes to sleep is red.
The colors are similar.  The colors are not the same.
Words for ideas are like words for colors.  There are very many ideas.  It is complicated that people know very many words.  In fact, toki pona is simple.  Toki pona has few words.  
Many ideas have the word `telo': drinking water, flowing sand under ground, flowing masses of people.]  






There is a spectrum of practically infinite colors. Remembering a name for them all is hard, so we chop it into 9 or so chunks. black, blue, red, etc
If you look at a color, you name it by which of the 9 sections of the spectrum it is in. So when we say "red", it doesn't mean one exact color, it is a range of similar colors. Sunsets, and blood, and fire are all red, but they aren't exactly the same.
Ideas are also on a spectrum of practically infinite number. Remembering a name for them all is hard, so we chop it into 125 chunks.
If you have an idea, you name it by which of the 125 sections of the idea spectrum it is in. So when you say "telo", it doesn't mean one exact thing, it is a range of similar things. Like water, or flowing sand, or a crowd of people squeezing through a doorway.
