882
Marcus Miles
Tenpo pimeja pini la mi en olin mi li tawa tomo pi musi kalama. Mi kute e musi ni e lukin lape pi tomo loje. Musi ni li pona mute tawa mi.

[John Clifford 'kalama musi'? (music, rather than noisy entertainment) how doe you hear the dreams of the red chamber? ]

2 2
Comments

John Clifford 'kalama musi'? sine ken kute e lukin lape kepeken nasin seme? (toki pi tenpo pini pi ma Sanko?)


Piotr Mittelstaedt "house of sound entertainment" looks as good for me as "house of entertaining sound" (the last is traditionally used for "of music", however )Starting from the most general it's "house of entertainment /relax" 'tomo pi musi seme" - it means that you can chat to people and they never stop selling beer.On the other hand, if the music never stops but beer and chat do, it would be "tomo pi kalama musi"."noise" is often biased and usually a little bit negative.
Like 路 Reply 路 3 hrs

Marcus Miles Mi kute e kalama musi. Kalama musi li jo e nimi 'lukin lape pi tomo loje'.See Translation
Like 路 Reply 路 19 mins

Piotr Mittelstaedt a. pona! sina kute e kalama musi 'lukin lape pi tomo loje'. taso ike la mi sona ala e ona.



882a
Marcus Miles
tenpo pimeja pini la mi en olin mi li tawa tomo pi kalama musi. mi kute e musi ni e lukin lape pi tomo loje. musi ni li pona mute tawa mi.


John Clifford 
sina ken kute e lukin lape kepeken nasin seme? (toki pi tenpo pini pi ma Sanko?)

Marcus Miles 
mi kute e kalama musi. kalama musi li jo e nimi 'lukin lape pi tomo loje'.

Piotr Mittelstaedt 
a. pona! sina kute e kalama musi 'lukin lape pi tomo loje'. taso ike la mi sona ala e ona.






[Marcus Miles
Last night, I and my love went to a music hall.  I heard this song and a dream of a red room.  I liked this song a lot.

John Clifford
How did you hear a dream?  (An ancient Chinese story?) 
Marcus Miles 
I heard a song.  This song had the name "Dream of a red room"

Piotr Mittelstaedt 
Oh!  Thanks!  You heard the song "Dream of a red room".  But, unfortunately, I don't know it.]





