972

‎Maxime Wegesin‎totoki pona
12 mins · 

Meli pona mute li pali e toki sitelen musi ni. Mi ante toki e ni tawa toki pona. Sina wile pona e ni la o pona! smile emoticon
My girlfriend made this comic, which I translated to toki pona. If you have corrections, please tell me. smile emoticon



  Like
  CommentShare


John Clifford Cute and wise. But an imperative is unlikely (impossible?) as the "if" clause, so probably 'sina' or 'mi' or 'jan li' in place of 'o' in first and sixth and seventh panels. prob 'meli pi pona mute' (no bigamy allowed)

Marie Adele Elliott Maybe it could be a "new" thing, stressing the connotation of cause and effect (kind of like a "because") and suggesting it as a general action to the audience (e.g. o pana e moku tawa jan pi moku ala la jan ni li ken moku li ken awen lon = (You, addressee) ought to give food to the hungry as then they'll be able to eat and keep living.) I know we have "o ... tan ni: ...", but maybe this could be a different sort of sense, and later even take on polite connotations (e.g. o pana e telo tawa mi la mi ken moku li pona = Give me water since then I can drink and will be alright; we could replace "o" with "sina" but then it's not really a command/wish, person x may not even want water, it's just a nuanced sentence). Could be a little namako/ike but we'll see if it catches on, maybe.
Like · Reply · 7 mins

John Clifford Sounds a lot like standard 'tawa ni:' but I may be missing nuances.



  Ruth Ward-Lee ni li suwi mute!  A!
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 Reply · 9 mins
  
  Ruth Ward-Lee a! o lukin tawa sinpin ona! suwi a!  ni li pona mute tawa mi. sina pana e sitelen mute lon tenpo kama la sina (en meli olin sina) li pona mute tawa mi!
Like · Reply · 6 mins

John Clifford prb 'lukin e sinpin ona', 'lukin tawa', if used at all, seems to mean more panoramic views rather than detailed seeing.

Like · Reply · 13 hrs

Marie Adele Elliott (Skip to the bottom if you don't want to read the whole thing) The nuance is this: It's not "in order to", it's "do this, and as a byproduct of that action, this will happen", so... kinda like advertising? And not telling them to do something along the lines of/for a specific purpose, but just showing them what will inevitably happen if they do that thing; otherwise it might be a coloured sentence, if that makes any sense... e.g. "o pali e telo wawa tawa mi la ona li pona li wawa e pilin mi" means the person should go make a coffee for someone and as a result they'll feel happy and energetic (having drunk it), but it doesn't mean they have to make a particularly strong and good coffee with the purpose of lots of energy/caffeine in mind, it'll be good no matter how it's brewed. It's not colouring/affecting the person's action/purpose/direction in any way, it's just to let the other person know that x thing will happen or they might get x reward (kinda like a quicker way of saying "sina pali e ni la mi pana e x / pali e x tawa sina" if it's ever used in this case, if this case makes sense. Actually, that's a great way to describe the whole thing - a "sina pali e ni la x" tacked on. Instead of saying that extra bit, just slip a little mention of the result in. Yay or nay to you? :))

John Clifford But "do this and that will happen" is just what 'la' is about. The point is a logical one: a command is not a condition, since it does not describe a situation, so it doesn't fit into a 'la' construction in the first slot. Different sorts of speech acts. And what yopu are suggesting it be an idiom for is just something already covered, possibly with the hint of encouragement to do it -- but that is already covered by other forms ('tawa ni' or 'tan ni'). 


Maxime Wegesin Nice to hear your opinions about this. I think the reason I chose the imperative for the 'la' condition, is that it felt wrong to me to address somebody specifically."Sina tawa ma la o pana..." means addressing the reader directly. On the other hand "Ona tawa ma la o pana..." or "Jan tawa ma la o pana..." feels like the reader is not addressed at all.I learned tp from jan Sonjas book and found the description of 'la' to be vague enough to allow this usage.
Like · Reply · 1 min · Edited

John Clifford "Vague" is kind. But what would you do in English (or whatever)? Either "you" or "a person" or "one" or something indefinite like that. The problem is a logical one of giving a command as an "if"; it doesn't describe a condition, but rather directs an action, so doesn't set up a "then". And note, in passing, that imperative implicitly do address the hearer as the one to perform the action directed.

Like · Reply · 54 mins

Maxime Wegesin But when I say "Do this, then this will happen", then "do this" is an imperative, isn't it?
Like · Reply · 49 mins


Yes, but the "then" is not a part of an "if ... then ..." , it is merely a temporal succession (or maybe a causal one implicitly) so it is just 'ni pini la'.




Ruth Ward-Lee a, I had lukin e and then I thought you'd correct me so I changed it. I mean tawa implies more looking towards all the faces there (whereas e feels more like looking at the individual face of the creature) so idk they're both fine but yeah e /is/ more what I was going for.

Marie Adele Elliott mi wile mute pali e ni a!  meli sina li sitelen pona kin!
Like · Reply · 1 · 8 mins
 rs
  
  Алексей Тихонов pona! mi sona e nimi ali! sitelen ni li lon la nimi sina ali li pona a! taso mi pilin e ni: sitelen ni li weka la sina ken kin pona e nimi sina:- o lukin e sitelen nanpa 4. sina kepeken nimi "o pali" la sina wile toki e nimi Inli "mix" anu seme? ni li lon la, ken la sina wile kepeken nimi "o tawa e ko kepeken palisa". taso sina kepeken nimi wan lili. ni li pona lon tenpo ali.- o lukin e sitelen nanpa 5. mi lukin e nimi "o selo e sike". ken la sina wile sitelen e nimi "o selo sike e ko" anu e nimi "o pali e sike".







