988

‎Polina Cedric‎totoki pona

tenpo suno ni la mi kama sona e toki pono. mi toki e ni: toki pona li pona mute mute mute! mi wile sona mute!
mi toki e ni: sina ken kepeken pona e toki pona lon lipu suli. sina wile toki e tenpo ali lon lipu suli ni. sina wile toki e ali sina. ken la ni li ike lili. tenpo suno kama la mi kama pali.
Today I was learning toki pona. I think toki pona is so so so amazing! I want to learn more!
I think it would be a good idea to use toki pona for a diary (it would be a good challenge). I will try it t

John Clifford kama pona tawa toki pona. 'mute mute (mute)' is marginal but gaining ground as an emotional superlative (but probably needs 'pi') 'e' not needed with 'kepeken'. not sure what 'toki e tenpo ali' is meant to mean but it looks wrong: the direct object of 'toki' is what is said and times aren't sayable; prob 'toki lon tenpo ali' "talk all the time" or (apparently) 'toki e ijo pi tenpo ali' "talk about all time" (prob "'pi kama ali' "all events") Maybe 'sitelen e lipu pi kama/tenpo ali sina' pona.
Like · Reply · Just now · Edited

Polina Cedric Thank you for the corrections! With "toki e tenpo ali", I tried to say "you should write/speak every day", so yeah, "toki lon tenpo ali" works. And I didn't realize sitelen can also mean "write", though I guess it makes sense. 

Mikołaj Musiał toki, jan Polina. sina tan ma seme?See Translation
 Like · Reply · 1 · 1 hr
  
  John Clifford 'jan Polina o, toki!'
  
  
  
  
  
  
988a

‎Polina Cedric
tenpo suno ni la mi kama sona e toki pono. mi toki e ni: toki pona li pona pi mute mute mute! mi wile sona mute!
mi toki e ni: sina ken kepeken pona toki pona lon lipu suli. sina wile toki lon tenpo ali lon lipu suli ni. sina wile toki e ijo pi ali sina. ken la ni li ike lili. tenpo suno kama la mi kama pali.
Mikołaj Musiał 
jan Polina o, toki. sina tan ma seme?
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  [‎Polina Cedric
I am learning toki pona.  I say that toki pona is really very very good.  I want to learn more.I say that you can use toki pona well on the big site.  You should talk all the time on the big site.  You should talk about your life .  Maybe this is a little bad.  Tomorrow, I go to work.
Mikołaj Musiał 
Polina, what country are you from?]


