Chapter 1
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word 
was God. 
This same was in the beginning with God. 
All things were made by it, and without it was made nothing that was made. 
In it was life, and the life was the light of men. 
And that light shineth in the darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not. 
There was a man sent from God, whose name was John. 
This same came for a witness, to bear wiitness of the light, that all men through 
him might believe. 
He was not the light, but was sent to bear witness of the light. 
This was the true light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world. 
He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew 
him not. 
He came unto his own, and his own received him not. 
But as many as received him, to them he gave prerogative to be the sons of 
God, even to them that believe in his Name. 
Which are born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of 
man, but of God. 
And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we saw the glory 
thereof, as the glory of the only begotten Son of the Father) full of grace and 
truth. 
John bare witness of him, and cried, saying, This was he of whom I said, 
He that cometh after me, is preferred before me, for he was before me. 
And of his fullness have all we received, and grace for grace. 
For the Law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ. 
No man hath seen God at any time; the only begotten Son, which is in the 
bosom of the Father, he hath declared him. 
Then this is the record of John, when the Jews sent Priests and Levites from 
Jerusalem to ask him, Who art thou? 
And he confessed and denied not, and said plainly, I am not the Christ. 
And they asked him, What then? Art thou Elijah? And he said, I am not. Art 
thou the Prophet? And he answered, No. 
Then said they unto him, Who art thou, that we may give an answer to them 
that sent us? What sayest thou of thyself? 
He said, I am the voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, Make straight the 
way of the Lord, as said the Prophet Isaiah. 
Now they which were sent, were of the Pharisees. 
And they asked him, and said unto him, Why baptizest thou then, if thou be 
not the Christ, neither Elijah, nor the Prophet? 
John answered them, saying, I baptize with water, but there is one among 
you, whom ye know not. 
He it is that cometh after me, which is preferred before me, whose shoe 
latchet I am not worthy to unloose. 
These things were done in Bethabara beyond Jordan, where John did baptize. 
The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him, and saith, Behold the 
Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. 
This is he of whom I said, After me cometh a man, which is preferred before 
me, for he was before me. 
And I knew him not, but because he should be declared to Israel, therefore 
am I come, baptizing with water. 
So John bare record, saying, I saw the Spirit come down from heaven, like a 
dove, and it abode upon him, 
And I knew him not, but he that sent me to baptize with water, he said unto 
me, Upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit come down, and tarry still on him, that 
is he which baptizeth with the holy Ghost. 
And I saw, and bare record that this is the Son of God. 
The next day, John stood again, and two of his disciples. 
And he beheld Jesus walking by, and said, Behold the Lamb of God. 
And the two disciples heard him speak, and followed Jesus. 
Then Jesus turned about, and saw them follow, and said unto them, What 
seek ye? And they said unto him, Rabbi, (which is to say by interpretation, 
Master) where dwellest thou? 
He said unto them, Come, and see. They came and saw where he dwelt, and 
abode with him that day, for it was about the tenth hour. 

Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother, was one of the two which had heard it of 
John, and that followed him. 
The same found his brother Simon first, and said unto him, We have found 
the Messiah which is by interpretation, the Christ. 
And he brought him to Jesus. And Jesus beheld him, and said, Thou art 
Simon the son of Jona; thou shalt be called Cephas, which is by interpretation a 
stone. 
The day following, Jesus would go into Galilee, and found Philip, and said 
unto him, Follow me. 
Now Philip was of Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter. 
Philip found Nathanael, and said unto him, We have found him of whom 
Moses did write in the Law, and the Prophets, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of 
Joseph. 
Then Nathanael said unto him, Can there any good thing come out of 
Nazareth? Philip said to him, Come, and see. 
Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and said of him, Behold indeed an 
Israelite, in whom is no guile. 
Nathanael said unto him, Whence knewest thou me? Jesus answered, and 
said unto him, Before that Philip called thee, when thou wast under the fig tree, I 
saw thee. 
Nathanael answered, and said unto him, Rabbi, thou art the Son of God; thou 
art the King of Israel. 
Jesus answered, and said unto him, Because I said unto thee, I saw thee under 
the fig tree, believest thou? Thou shalt see greater things than these. 
And he said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Hereafter shall ye see 
heaven open, and the Angels of God ascending, and descending upon that Son of 
man.

Chapter 2
Christ turneth water into Wine, which was the beginning of his miracles. He goeth down 
to Capernaum; from thence he goeth up to Jerusalem, and casteth the merchandise out of 
the Temple. He foretelleth that the Temple, that is, his body, shall be destroyed of the Jews. 
Many believe in him, seeing the miracles which he did. 
And the third day, was there a marriage in Cana a town of Galilee, and the 
mother of Jesus was there. 
And Jesus was called also, and his disciples unto the marriage. 
Now when the wine failed, the mother of Jesus said unto him, They have no 
wine. 
Jesus said unto her, Woman, what have I to do with thee? Mine hour is not yet 
come. 
His mother said unto the servants, Whatsoever he saith unto you, do it. 
And there were set there, six waterpots of stone, after the manner of the 
purifying of the Jews, containing two or three firkins a piece. 
And Jesus said unto them, Fill the waterpots with water. Then they filled them 
up to the brim. 
Then he said unto them, Draw out now, and bear unto the governor of the 
feast. So they bare it. 
Now when the governor of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine, 
(for he knew not whence it was, but the servants, which drew the water, knew) 
the governor of the feast called the bridegroom, 
And said unto him, All men at the beginning set forth good wine, and when 
men have well drunk, then that which is worse; but thou hast kept back the good 
wine until now. 
This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana a town of Galilee, and shewed 
forth his glory, and his disciples believed on him. 
After that, he went down into Capernaum, he and his mother, and his 
brethren, and his disciples; but they continued not many days there. 
For the Jews’ Passover was at hand. Therefore Jesus went up to Jerusalem. 
And he found in the Temple those that sold oxen, and sheep, and doves, and 
changers of money, sitting there. 
Then he made a scourge of small cords, and drove them all out of the Temple 
with the sheep and oxen, and poured out the changers’ money, and overthrew 
their tables, 
And said unto them that sold doves, Take these things hence; make not my 
father’s house, a house of merchandise. 
And his disciples remembered, that it was written, The zeal of thine house 
hath eaten me up. 
Then answered the Jews, and said unto him, What sign shewest thou unto us, 
that thou doest these things? 
Jesus answered and said unto them, Destroy this Temple, and in three days I 
will raise it up again. 
Then said the Jews, Forty and six years was this Temple a building, and wilt 
thou rear it up in three days? 
But he spake of the temple of his body. 
As soon therefore as he was risen from the dead, his disciples remembered 
that he thus said unto them; and they believed the Scripture, and the word which 
Jesus had said. 
Now when he was at Jerusalem at the Passover in the feast, many believed in 
his Name, when they saw his miracles which he did. 
But Jesus did not commit himself unto them, because he knew them all, 
And had no need that any should testify of man, for he knew what was in 
man. 

Chapter 3
Christ teacheth Nicodemus the very principles of Christian regeneration. The serpent in the 
wilderness. John baptizeth, and teacheth his, that he is not Christ. 
There was now a man of the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. 
This man came to Jesus by night, and said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou 
art a teacher come from God, for no man could do these miracles that thou doest, 
except God were with him. 
Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man 
be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. 
Nicodemus said unto him, How can a man be born which is old? Can he enter 
into his mother’s womb again, and be born? 
Jesus answered, Verily, verily I say unto thee, except that a man be born of 
water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. 
That which is born of the flesh, is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit, is 
spirit. 
Marvel not that I said to thee, Ye must be born again. 
The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but 
canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth; so is every man that is born 
of the Spirit. 
Nicodemus answered, and said unto him, How can these things be? 
Jesus answered, and said unto him, Art thou a teacher of Israel, and knowest 
not these things? 
Verily, verily I say unto thee, we speak that we know, and testify that we 
have seen, but ye receive not our witness. 
If when I tell you earthly things, ye believe not, how should ye believe, if I 
shall tell you of heavenly things? 
For no man ascendeth up to heaven, but he that hath descended from heaven, 
the Son of man which is in heaven. 
And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must that Son of man 
be lifted up, 
That whosoever believeth in him, should not perish, but have eternal life. 
For God so loved the world, that he hath given his only begotten Son, that 
whosoever believeth in him, should not perish, but have everlasting life. 
For God sent not his Son into the world, that he should condemn the world, 
but that the world through him might be saved. 
He that believeth in him, is not condemned; but he that believeth not, is 
condemned already, because he hath not believed in the Name of that only 
begotten Son of God. 
And this is the condemnation, that light is come into the world, and men 
loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil. 
For every man that evil doeth, hateth the light, neither cometh to light, lest his 
deeds should be reproved. 
But he that doeth truth, cometh to the light, that his deeds might be made 
manifest, that they are wrought according to God. 
After these things came Jesus, and his disciples into the land of Judea, and 
there tarried with them, and baptized. 
And John also baptized in Aenon besides Salim, because there was much 
water there; and they came and were baptized. 
For John was not yet cast into prison. 
Then there arose a question between John’s disciples and the Jews, about 
purifying. 
And they came unto John, and said unto him, Rabbi, he that was with thee 
beyond Jordan, to whom thou barest witness, behold, he baptizeth, and all men 
come to him. 
John answered, and said, A man can receive nothing, except it be given him 
from heaven. 
Ye yourselves are my witnesses, that I said, I am not the Christ, but that I am 
sent before him. 
He that hath the bride, is the bridegroom; but the friend of the bridegroom 
which standeth and heareth him, rejoiceth greatly, because of the bridegroom’s 
voice. This my joy therefore is fulfilled. 
He must increase, but I must decrease. 
He that is come from on high, is above all, he that is of the earth, is of the 
earth, and speaketh of the earth; he that is come from heaven, is above all. 
And what he hath seen and heard, that he testifieth; but no man receiveth his 
testimony. 
He that hath received his testimony, hath sealed that God is true. 
For he whom God hath sent, speaketh the words of God; for God giveth him
not the Spirit by measure. 
The Father loveth the Son, and hath given all things into his hand. 
He that believeth in the Son, hath everlasting life, and he that obeyeth not the 
Son, shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. 

Chapter 4

Jesus being weary, asketh drink of the woman of Samaria. He teacheth true worship. He 
confesseth that he is the Messiah. His meat. The Samaritans believe in him. He healeth 
the Ruler’s son. 

Now when the Lord knew, how the Pharisees had heard, that Jesus made and 
baptized more disciples than John, 
(Though Jesus himself baptized not, but his disciples.) 
He left Judea, and departed again into Galilee. 
And he must needs go through Samaria. 
Then came he to a city of Samaria called Sychar, near unto the possession that 
Jacob gave to his son Joseph. 
And there was Jacob’s well. Jesus then wearied in the journey, sat thus on the 
well; it was about the sixth hour. 
There came a woman of Samaria to draw water. Jesus said unto her, Give me 
drink. 
For his disciples were gone away into the city, to buy meat. 
Then said the woman of Samaria unto him, How is it, that thou being a Jew, 
askest drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria? For the Jews meddle not 
with the Samaritans. 

Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knewest that gift of God, and who 
it is that saith to thee, Give me drink, thou wouldest have asked of him, and he 
would have given thee water of life. 
The woman said unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well 
is deep; from whence then hast thou that water of life? 
Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us the well, and he himself 
drank thereof, and his sons, and his cattle? 
Jesus answered, and said unto her, Whosoever drinketh of this water, shall 
thirst again; 
But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him, shall never be more 
athirst; but the water that I shall give him, shall be in him a well of water, 
springing up into everlasting life. 
The woman said unto him, Sir, give me of that water, that I may not thirst, 
neither come hither to draw. 
Jesus said unto her, Go, call thy husband, and come hither. 
The woman answered, and said, I have no husband. Jesus said unto her, Thou 
hast well said, I have no husband. 
For thou hast had five husbands, and he whom thou now hast, is not thy 
husband; that saidst thou truly. 
The woman said unto him, Sir, I see that thou art a Prophet. 
Our fathers worshipped in this mountain, and ye say, that in Jerusalem is the 
place where men ought to worship. 
Jesus said unto her, Woman, believe me, the hour cometh, when ye shall 
neither in this mountain, nor at Jerusalem worship the Father. 
Ye worship that which ye know not; we worship that which we know, for 
salvation is of the Jews. 
But the hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship 
the Father in Spirit and Truth; for the Father requireth even such to worship him. 
God is a Spirit, and they that worship him, must worship him in Spirit and 
Truth. 
The woman said unto him, I know well that Messiah shall come, which is 
called Christ; when he is come, he will tell us all things. 
Jesus said unto her, I am he, that speak unto thee. 
And upon that, came his disciples, and marveled that he talked with a 
woman, yet no man said unto him, What askest thou? Or why talkest thou with 
her? 
The woman then left her waterpot, and went her way into the city, and said 
to the men, 
Come, see a man which hath told me all things that ever I did; is not he the 
Christ? 
Then they went out of the city, and came unto him. 
In the meanwhile, the disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eat. 
But he said unto them, I have meat to eat, that ye know not of. 
Then said the disciples between themselves, Hath any man brought him 
meat? 
Jesus said unto them, My meat is that I may do the will of him that sent me, 
and finish his work. 
Say not ye, There are yet four months, and then cometh harvest? Behold, I say 
unto you, Lift up your eyes, and look on the regions, for they are white already 
unto harvest. 
And he that reapeth, receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto life eternal, 
that both he that soweth, and he that reapeth might rejoice together. 
For herein is the saying true, that one soweth and another reapeth. 

I sent you to reap that, whereon ye bestowed no labor; other men labored, 
and ye are entered into their labors. 
Now many of the Samaritans of that city believed in him, for the saying of the 
woman which testified, He hath told me all things that ever I did. 
Then when the Samaritans were come unto him, they besought him, that he 
would tarry with them; and he abode there two days. 
And many more believed because of his own word. 
And they said unto the woman, Now we believe, not because of thy saying, 
for we have heard him ourselves, and know that this is indeed that Christ the 
Saviour of the world. 
So two days after he departed thence, and went into Galilee. 
For Jesus himself had testified, that a Prophet hath no honor in his own 
country. 
Then when he was come into Galilee, the Galileans received him, which had 
seen all the things that he did at Jerusalem at the feast; for they went also unto 
the feast. 
And Jesus came again into Cana a town of Galilee, where he had made of 
water wine. And there was a certain ruler, whose son was sick at Capernaum. 
When he heard that Jesus was come out of Judea into Galilee, he went unto 
him, and besought him that he would go down, and heal his son; for he was even 
ready to die. 
Then said Jesus unto him, Except ye see signs and wonders, ye will not 
believe. 
The ruler said unto him, Sir, go down before my son dies. 
Jesus said unto him, Go thy way, thy son liveth. And the man believed the 
word that Jesus had spoken unto him, and went his way. 
And as he was now going down, his servants met him, saying, Thy son liveth. 
Then enquired he of them the hour when he began to amend. And they said 
unto him, Yesterday the seventh hour the fever left him. 
Then the father knew that it was the same hour in the which Jesus had said 
unto him, Thy son liveth. And he believed, and all his household. 
This second miracle did Jesus again, after he was come out of Judea into 
Galilee. 

Chapter 5
One lying at the pool, is healed of Christ on the Sabbath. The Jews that rashly find fault 
with that his deed, he convinceth with the authority of his Father, He proveth his divine 
power by many reasons, and with Moses' testimony. 
After that, there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. 
And there is at Jerusalem by the place of the sheep, a pool called in Hebrew 
Bethesda, having five porches; 
In the which lay a great multitude of sick folk, of blind, halt, and withered, 
waiting for the moving of the water. 
For an Angel went down at a certain season into the pool, and troubled the 
water; whosoever then first, after the stirring of the water, stepped in, was made 
whole of whatsoever disease he had. 
And a certain man was there, which had been diseased eight and thirty years. 

When Jesus saw him lie, and knew that he now long time had been diseased, 
he said unto him, Wilt thou be made whole? 
The sick man answered him, Sir, I have no man, when the water is troubled, to 
put me into the pool, but while I am coming, another steppeth down before me. 
Jesus said unto him, Rise, take up thy bed, and walk. 
And immediately the man was made whole, and took up his bed, and walked; 
and the same day was the Sabbath. 
The Jews therefore said to him that was made whole, It is the Sabbath day, it is 
not lawful for thee to carry thy bed. 
He answered them, He that made me whole he said unto me, Take up thy 
bed, and walk. 
Then asked they him, What man is that which said unto thee, Take up thy 
bed, and walk? 
And he that was healed, knew not who it was, for Jesus had conveyed himself 
away from the multitude that was in that place. 
And after that, Jesus found him in the Temple, and said unto him, Behold, 
thou art made whole; sin no more, lest a worse thing come unto thee. 
The man departed, and told the Jews that it was Jesus that had made him 
whole. 
And therefore the Jews did persecute Jesus, and sought to slay him, because 
he had done these things on the Sabbath day. 
But Jesus answered them, My Father worketh hitherto, and I work. 
Therefore the Jews sought the more to kill him, not only because he had 
broken the Sabbath, but said also that God was his Father, and made himself 
equal with God. 
Then answered Jesus, and said unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, The 
Son can do nothing of himself, save that he seeth the Father do; for whatsoever 
things he doeth, the same things doeth the Son in like manner. 
For the Father loveth the Son, and sheweth him all things, whatsoever he 
himself doeth, and he will shew him greater works than these, that ye should 
marvel. 
For likewise as the Father raiseth up the dead, and quickeneth them, so the 
Son quickeneth whom he will. 
For the Father judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment unto the 
Son, 
Because that all men should honor the Son, as they honor the Father. He that 
honoreth not the Son, the same honoreth not the Father which hath sent him. 
Verily, verily I say unto you, he that heareth my word, and believeth in him 
that sent me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation, but 
hath passed from death unto life. 
Verily, verily I say unto you, the hour shall come, and now is, when the dead 
shall hear the voice of the Son of God, and they that hear it shall live. 
For as the Father hath life in himself, so likewise hath he given to the Son to 
have life in himself. 
And hath given him power also to execute judgment, in that he is the Son of 
man. 
Marvel not at this; for the hour shall come, in the which all that are in the 
graves, shall hear his voice. 
And they shall come forth, that have done good, unto the resurrection of life, 
but they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of condemnation. 
I can do nothing of my own self; as I hear, I judge; and my judgment is just, 
because I seek not my own will, but the will of the Father who hath sent me. 
If I should bear witness of myself, my witness were not true. 
There is another that beareth witness of me, and I know that the witness, 
which he beareth of me, is true. 
Ye sent unto John, and he bare witness unto the truth. 
But I receive not the record of man, nevertheless these things I say, that ye 
might be saved. 
He was a burning and a shining candle, and ye would for a season have 
rejoiced in his light. 
But I have greater witness than the witness of John; for the works which the 
Father hath given me to finish, the same works that I do, bear witness of me, that 
the Father sent me. 
And the Father himself, which hath sent me, beareth witness of me. Ye have 
not heard his voice at any time, neither have ye seen his shape. 
And his word have ye not abiding in you, for whom he hath sent, him ye 
believe not. 
Search the Scriptures, for in them ye think to have eternal life, and they are 
they which testify of me. 
But ye will not come to me, that ye might have life. 
I receive not the praise of men. 
But I know you, that ye have not the love of God in you. 
I am come in my Father’s Name, and ye receive me not; if another shall come 
in his own name, him will ye receive. 
How can ye believe, which receive honor one of another, and seek not the 
honor that cometh of God alone? 
Do not think that I will accuse you to my Father; there is one that accuseth 
you, even Moses, in whom ye trust. 
For had ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me, for he wrote of me. 
But if ye believe not his writings, how shall ye believe my words?

Chapter 6
Five thousand are fed with five loaves and two fishes. Christ goeth apart from the people. 
As his disciples were rowing, he cometh to them walking on the water. He reasoneth of 
the true and everlasting, bread of life. The Jews murmur, and many of the disciples, 
depart from him. The Apostles confess him to be the Son of God. 
After these things, Jesus went his way over the sea of Galilee, which is 
Tiberias. 
And a great multitude followed him, because they saw his miracles, which he 
did on them that were diseased. 
Then Jesus went up into a mountain, and there he sat with his disciples. 
Now the Passover a feast of the Jews was near. 
Then Jesus lifted up his eyes, and seeing that a great multitude came unto him, 
he said unto Philip, Whence shall we buy bread, that these might eat? 
(And this he said to prove him, for he himself knew what he would do.) 
Philip answered him, Two hundred pennyworth of bread is not sufficient for 
them, that every one of them may take a little. 
Then said unto him one of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother, 
There is a little boy here, which hath five barley loaves, and two fishes, but 
what are they among so many? 
And Jesus said, Make the people sit down. (Now there was much grass in 
that place.) Then the men sat down, in number about five thousand. 
And Jesus took the bread, and gave thanks, and gave to the disciples, and the 
disciples to them that were set down; and likewise of the fishes as much as they 
would. 
And when they were satisfied, he said unto his disciples, Gather up the 
broken meat which remaineth, that nothing be lost. 
Then they gathered it together, and filled twelve baskets with the broken 
meat of the five barley loaves, which remained unto them that had eaten. 
Then the men, when they had seen the miracle that Jesus did, said, This is of a 
truth the Prophet that should come into the world. 
When Jesus therefore perceived that they would come, and take him to make 
him a King, he departed again into a mountain himself alone. 
When evening was now come, his disciples went down unto the sea, 
And entered into a ship, and went over the sea, towards Capernaum. And 
now it was dark, and Jesus was not come to them. 
And the Sea arose with a great wind that blew. 
And when they had rowed about five and twenty, or thirty furlongs, they 
saw Jesus walking on the sea, and drawing near unto the ship; so they were 
afraid. 
But he said unto them, It is I; be not afraid. 
Then willingly they received him into the ship, and the ship was by and by at 
the land, whither they went. 
The day following, the people which stood on the other side of the sea, saw 
that there was no other ship there, save that one, whereinto his disciples were 
entered, and that Jesus went not with his disciples in the ship, but that his 
disciples were gone alone, 
And that there came other ships from Tiberias near unto the place where they 
ate the bread, after the Lord had given thanks. 
Now when the people saw that Jesus was not there, neither his disciples, they 
also took shipping, and came to Capernaum, seeking for Jesus. 
And when they had found him on the other side of the sea, they said unto 
him, Rabbi, when camest thou hither? 
Jesus answered them, and said, Verily, verily I say unto you, Ye seek me not, 
because ye saw the miracles, but because ye ate of the loaves, and were filled. 
Labor not for the meat which perisheth, but for the meat that endureth unto 
everlasting life, which the Son of man shall give unto you, for him hath God the 
Father sealed. 
Then said they unto him, What shall we do, that we might work the works of 
God? 
Jesus answered, and said unto them, This is the work of God, that ye believe 
in him, whom he hath sent. 
They said therefore unto him, What sign shewest thou then, that we may see 
it, and believe thee? What doest thou work? 

Our fathers did eat Manna in the desert, as it is written, He gave them bread 
from heaven to eat. 
Then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, Moses gave you not 
that bread from heaven, but my Father giveth you that true bread from heaven. 

For the bread of God is he which cometh down from heaven, and giveth life 
unto the world. 
Then they said unto him, Lord, evermore give us this bread. 
And Jesus said unto them, I am that bread of life; he that cometh to me, shall 
not hunger, and he that believeth in me, shall never thirst. 
But I say unto you, that ye also have seen me, and believe not. 
All that the Father giveth me, shall come to me, and him that cometh to me, I 
cast not away. 
For I came down from heaven, not to do my own will, but his will which hath 
sent me. 
And this is the Father’s will which hath sent me, that of all which he hath 
given me, I should lose nothing, but should raise it up again at the last day. 
And this is the will of him that sent me, that every man which seeth the Son, 
and believeth in him, should have everlasting life, and I will raise him up at the 
last day. 
The Jews then murmured at him because he said, I am the bread, which is 
come down from heaven. 
And they said, Is not this Jesus the son of Joseph, whose father and mother 
we know? How then saith he, I came down from heaven? 
Jesus then answered, and said unto them, Murmur not among yourselves. 
No man can come to me, except the Father, which hath sent me, draw him; 
and I will raise him up at the last day. 
It is written in the Prophets, And they shall be all taught of God. Every man 
therefore that hath heard, and hath learned of the Father, cometh unto me; 
Not that any man hath seen the Father, save he which is of God, he hath seen 
the Father. 
Verily, verily I say unto you, he that believeth in me, hath everlasting life. 
I am that bread of life. 
Your fathers did eat Manna in the wilderness, and are dead. 
This is the bread, which cometh down from heaven, that he which eateth of it, 
should not die. 

I am that living bread, which came down from heaven; if any man eat of this 
bread, he shall live forever; and the bread that I will give is my flesh, which I will 
give for the life of the world. 
Then the Jews strove among themselves, saying, How can this man give us 
his flesh to eat? 
Then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, Except ye eat the 
flesh of the Son of man, and drink his blood, ye have no life in you. 

Whosoever eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath eternal life, and I 
will raise him up at the last day. 
For my flesh is meat indeed, and my blood is drink indeed. 
He that eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, dwelleth in me, and I in him. 
As the living Father hath sent me, so live I by the Father, and he that eateth 
me, even he shall live by me. 
This is the bread which came down from heaven; not as your fathers have 
eaten Manna, and are dead. He that eateth of this bread, shall live forever. 
These things spake he in the Synagogue, as he taught in Capernaum. 
Many therefore of his disciples (when they heard this) said, This is a hard 
saying; who can hear it? 
But Jesus knowing in himself, that his disciples murmured at this, said unto 
them, Doeth this offend you? 
What then if ye should see the Son of man ascend up where he was before? 
It is the Spirit that quickeneth; the flesh profiteth nothing; the words that I 
speak unto you, are spirit and life. 
But there are some of you that believe not. For Jesus knew from the 
beginning, which they were that believed not, and who should betray him. 
And he said, Therefore said I unto you, that no man can come unto me, 
except it be given unto him of my Father. 
From that time, many of his disciples went back, and walked no more with 
him. 
Then said Jesus to the twelve, Will ye also go away? 
Then Simon Peter answered him, Master, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the 
words of eternal life; 
And we believe and know that thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. 
Jesus answered them, Have not I chosen you twelve, and one of you is a 
devil? 
Now he spake it of Judas Iscariot the son of Simon, for he it was that should 
betray him, though he was one of the twelve. 

Chapter 7
Christ, after his cousins were gone up to the feast of Tabernacles, goeth thither privily. 
The people’s sundry opinions of him. He teacheth in the Temple. The Priests command to 
take him. Strife among the multitude about him, and between the Pharisees and the 
officers that were sent to take him, and Nicodemus. 
After these things, Jesus walked in Galilee, and would not walk in Judea, for 
the Jews sought to kill him. 
Now the Jews’ feast of the Tabernacles was at hand. 
His brethren therefore said unto him, Depart hence, and go into Judea, that thy 
disciples may see thy works that thou doest. 
For there is no man that doeth anything secretly, and he himself seeketh to be 
famous. If thou doest these things, shew thyself to the world. 
For as yet his brethren believed not in him. 
Then Jesus said unto them, My time is not yet come, but your time is always 
ready. 

The world cannot hate you, but me it hateth, because I testify of it, that the 
works thereof are evil. 
Go ye up unto this feast; I will not go up yet unto this feast, for my time is not 
yet fulfilled.

These things he said unto them, and abode still in Galilee. 
But as soon as his brethren were gone up, then went he also up unto the feast, 
not openly, but as it were privily. 
Then the Jews sought him at the feast, and said, Where is he? 
And much murmuring was there of him among the people. Some said, He is 
a good man; others said, Nay, but he deceiveth the people. 
Howbeit no man spake openly of him for fear of the Jews. 
Now when half the feast was done, Jesus went up into the Temple, and 
taught. 
And the Jews marveled, saying, How knoweth this man the Scriptures, seeing 
that he never learned? 
Jesus answered them, and said, My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. 
If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of 
God, or whether I speak of myself. 
He that speaketh of himself, seeketh his own glory; but he that seeketh his 
glory that sent him, the same is true, and no unrighteousness is in him. 
Did not Moses give you a Law, and yet none of you keepeth the Law? Why go 
ye about to kill me? 
The people answered, and said, Thou hast a devil, who goeth about to kill 
thee? 
Jesus answered, and said unto them, I have done one work, and ye all marvel. 
Moses therefore gave unto you circumcision, (not because it is of Moses, but 
of the fathers) and ye on the Sabbath day circumcise a man. 
If a man on the Sabbath receive circumcision, that the Law of Moses should 
not be broken, be ye angry with me, because I have made a man every whit 
whole on the Sabbath day? 
Judge not according to the appearance, but judge righteous judgment. 
Then said some of them of Jerusalem, Is not this he whom they go about to 
kill? 
And behold, he speaketh openly, and they say nothing to him. Do the rulers 
know indeed that this is the very Christ? 
Howbeit we know this man whence he is; but when the Christ cometh, no 
man shall know whence he is. 
Then cried Jesus in the Temple as he taught, saying, Ye both know me, and 
know whence I am; yet am I not come of myself, but he that sent me, is true, 
whom ye know not. 

But I know him, for I am of him, and he hath sent me. 
Then they sought to take him, but no man laid hands on him, because his 
hour was not yet come. 

Now many of the people believed in him, and said, When the Christ cometh, 
will he do more miracles than this man hath done? 
The Pharisees heard that the people murmured these things of him, and the 
Pharisees, and high Priests sent officers to take him. 
Then said Jesus unto them, Yet am I a little while with you, and then go I unto 
him that sent me. 
Ye shall seek me, and shall not find me, and where I am, can ye not come. 
Then said the Jews among themselves, Whither will he go, that we shall not 
find him? Will he go unto them that are dispersed among the Grecians, and teach 
the Grecians? 
What saying is this that he said, Ye shall seek me, and shall not find me? And 
where I am, can ye not come? 
Now in the last and great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried, saying, If any 
man thirst, let him come unto me, and drink. 
He that believeth in me, as saith the Scripture, out of his belly shall flow 
rivers of water of life. 
(This spake he of the Spirit, which they that believed in him, should receive; 
for the holy Ghost was not yet given, because that Jesus was not yet glorified.) 
So many of the people, when they heard this saying, said, Of a truth this is 
the Prophet; 
Others said, This is the Christ. And some said, But shall Christ come out of 
Galilee? 

Saith not the Scripture that Christ shall come of the seed of David, and out of 
the town of Bethlehem, where David was? 
So was there dissension among the people for him. 
And some of them would have taken him, but no man laid hands on him. 
Then came the officers to the high Priests and Pharisees, and they said unto 
them, Why have ye not brought him? 
The officers answered, Never man spake like this man. 
Then answered them the Pharisees, Are ye also deceived? 
Doeth any of the rulers, or of the Pharisees believe in him? 
But this people, which know not the Law, are cursed. 
Nicodemus said unto them, (he that came to Jesus by night, and was one of 
them.) 
Doth our Law judge a man before it hear him, and know what he hath done? 
They answered, and said unto him, Art thou also of Galilee? Search and look, 
for out of Galilee ariseth no Prophet. 
And every man went unto his own house. 

Chapter 8
The woman taken in adultery, hath her sins forgiven her. Christ the light of the world. 
The Pharisees ask where his Father is. The sons of Abraham. The sons of God. The 
devil the father of lying. Abraham saw Christ's day. 
And Jesus went unto the mount of Olives, 
And early in the morning came again into the Temple, and all the people came 
unto him, and he sat down and taught them. 
Then the Scribes and the Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in 
adultery, and set her in the midst, 
And said unto him, Master, this woman was taken in adultery, in the very act. 
Now Moses in the Law commanded us, that such should be stoned; what 
sayest thou therefore? 
And this they said to tempt him, that they might have, whereof to accuse him. 
But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground. 
And while they continued asking him, he lifted himself up, and said unto 
them, Let him that is among you without sin, cast the first stone at her. 
And again he stooped down, and wrote on the ground. 
And when they heard it, being accused by their own conscience, they went out 
one by one, beginning at the eldest even to the last, so Jesus was left alone, and 
the woman standing in the midst. 
When Jesus had lifted up himself again, and saw no man, but the woman, he 
said unto her, Woman, where are those thine accusers? Hath no man condemned 
thee? 
She said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said, Neither do I condemn thee, go and 
sin no more. 
Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world; he that 
followeth me, shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. 
The Pharisees therefore said unto him, Thou bearest record of thyself; thy 
record is not true. 
Jesus answered, and said unto them, Though I bear record of myself, yet my 
record is true, for I know whence I came, and whither I go; but ye cannot tell 
whence I come, and whither I go. 
Ye judge after the flesh; I judge no man. 
And if I also judge, my judgment is true, for I am not alone, but I and the 
Father, that sent me. 
And it is also written in your Law, that the testimony of two men is true. 
I am one that bear witness of myself, and the Father that sent me beareth 
witness of me. 
Then said they unto him, Where is thy Father? Jesus answered, Ye neither 
know me, nor my Father. If ye had known me, ye should have known my Father 
also. 
These words spake Jesus in the treasury, as he taught in the Temple, and no 
man laid hands on him, for his hour was not yet come. 
Then said Jesus again unto them, I go my way, and ye shall seek me, and 
shall die in your sins, Whither I go, can ye not come. 
Then said the Jews, Will he kill himself, because he saith, Whither I go, can ye 
not come? 
And he said unto them, Ye are from beneath, I am from above; ye are of this 
world, I am not of this world. 
I said therefore unto you, That ye shall die in your sins; for except ye believe, 
that I am he, ye shall die in your sins. 
Then said they unto him, Who art thou? And Jesus said unto them, Even the 
same thing that I said unto you from the beginning. 
I have many things to say, and to judge of you, but he that sent me, is true, 
and the things that I have heard of him, those speak I to the world. 
They understood not that he spake to them of the Father. 
Then said Jesus unto them, When ye have lifted up the Son of man, then shall 
ye know that I am he, and that I do nothing of myself, but as my Father hath 
taught me, so I spake these things. 
For he that sent me, is with me; the Father hath not left me alone, because I do 
always those things that please him. 
As he spake these things, many believed in him. 
Then said Jesus to the Jews which believed in him, If ye continue in my word, 
ye are verily my disciples, 
And shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. 
They answered him, We be Abraham’s seed, and were never bond to any 
man; why sayest thou then, Ye shall be made free? 
Jesus answered them, Verily, verily I say unto you, that whosoever 
committeth sin, is the servant of sin. 
And the servant abideth not in the house forever; but the Son abideth forever. 
If the Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed. 
I know that ye are Abraham’s seed, but ye seek to kill me, because my word 
hath no place in you. 
I speak that which I have seen with my Father; and ye do that which ye have 
seen with your father. 
They answered, and said unto him, Abraham is our father. Jesus said unto 
them, If ye were Abraham’s children, ye would do the works of Abraham. 
But now ye go about to kill me, a man that have told you the truth, which I 
have heard of God; this did not Abraham. 
Ye do the works of your father. Then said they to him, We are not born of 
fornication; we have one Father, which is God. 
Therefore Jesus said unto them, If God were your Father, then would ye love 
me, for I proceeded forth, and came from God, neither came I of myself, but he 
sent me. 
Why do ye not understand my talk? Because ye cannot hear my word. 
Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father ye will do. He hath 
been a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the truth, because there is 
no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, then speaketh he of his own, for he is a 
liar, and the father thereof. 
And because I tell you the truth, ye believe me not. 
Which of you can rebuke me of sin? And if I say the truth, why do ye not 
believe me? 
He that is of God heareth God’s words; ye therefore hear them not, because 
ye are not of God. 
Then answered the Jews, and said unto him, Say we not well that thou art a 
Samaritan, and hast a devil? 
Jesus answered, I have not a devil, but I honor my Father, and ye have 
dishonored me. 
And I seek not my own praise; but there is one that seeketh it, and judgeth. 
Verily, verily I say unto you, If a man keep my word, he shall never see death.
Then said the Jews to him, Now know we that thou hast a devil. Abraham is 
dead, and the Prophets; and thou sayest, If a man keep my word, he shall never 
taste of death. 
Art thou greater than our father Abraham, which is dead? And the Prophets 
are dead; whom makest thou thyself? 
Jesus answered, If I honor myself, my honor is nothing worth; it is my Father 
that honoreth me, whom ye say, that he is your God. 
Yet ye have not known him, but I know him, and if I should say I know him 
not, I should be a liar like unto you, but I know him, and keep his word. 
Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day, and he saw it, and was glad. 
Then said the Jews unto him, Thou art not yet fifty years old, and hast thou 
seen Abraham? 
Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, before Abraham was, I 
am. 
Then took they up stones to cast at him, but Jesus hid himself, and went out 
of the Temple; And he passed through the midst of them, and so went his way. 

Chapter 9
Christ giveth sight on the Sabbath day, to him that was born blind. Whom, after he had 
long reasoned against the Pharisees, 22,and was cast out of the Synagogue, Christ endueth 
with the Knowledge of the everlasting light. 
And as Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from his birth. 
And his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin, this man, or his 
parents, that he was born blind? 
Jesus answered, Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents, but that the 
works of God should be shewed on him. 
I must work the works of him that sent me, while it is day; the night cometh 
when no man can work. 
As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. 
As soon as he had thus spoken, he spat on the ground, and made clay of the 
spittle, and anointed the eyes of the blind with the clay, 
And said unto him, Go wash in the pool of Siloam (which is by interpretation, 
Sent.) He went his way therefore and washed, and came again seeing. 
Now the neighbors and they that had seen him before, when he was blind, 
said, Is not this he that sat and begged? 
Some said, This is he, and others said, He is like him, but he himself said, I am 
he. 
Therefore they said unto him, How were thine eyes opened? 
He answered, and said, The man that is called Jesus, made clay, and anointed 
my eyes, and said unto me, Go to the pool of Siloam and wash. So I went and 
washed, and received sight. 
Then they said unto him, Where is he? He said, I cannot tell. 
They brought to the Pharisees him that was once blind. 
And it was the Sabbath day, when Jesus made the clay, and opened his eyes. 
Then again the Pharisees also asked him, how he had received sight. And he 
said unto them, He laid clay upon my eyes, and I washed, and do see. 
Then said some of the Pharisees, This man is not of God, because he keepeth 
not the Sabbath day. Others said, How can a man that is a sinner, do such 
miracles? And there was a dissension among them. 
Then spake they unto the blind again, What sayest thou of him, because he 
hath opened thine eyes? And he said, He is a Prophet. 
Then the Jews did not believe him (that he had been blind, and received his 
sight) until they had called the parents of him that had received sight. 
And they asked them, saying, Is this your son, whom ye say was born blind? 
How doeth he now see then? 
His parents answered them, and said, We know that this is our son, and that 
he was born blind; 
But by what means he now seeth, we know not; or who hath opened his eyes, 
can we not tell; he is old enough, ask him; he shall answer for himself. 
These words spake his parents, because they feared the Jews; for the Jews had 
ordained already, that if any man did confess that he was Christ, he should be 
excommunicated out of the Synagogue. 
Therefore said his parents, He is old enough; ask him. 
Then again called they the man that had been blind, and said unto him, Give 
glory unto God; we know that this man is a sinner. 
Then he answered, and said, Whether he be a sinner or not, I cannot tell; one 
thing I know, that I was blind, and now I see. 
Then said they to him again, What did he to thee? How opened he thine eyes? 
He answered them, I have told you already, and ye have not heard it; 
wherefore would ye hear it again? Will ye also be his disciples? 
Then reviled they him, and said, Be thou his disciple, we be Moses’ disciples. 
We know that God spake with Moses, but this man we know not from 
whence he is. 
The man answered, and said unto them, Doubtless, this is a marvelous thing, 
that ye know not whence he is, and yet he hath opened my eyes. 
Now we know that God heareth not sinners; but if any man be a worshipper 
of God, and doeth his will, him heareth he. 
Since the world began, was it not heard, that any man opened the eyes of one 
that was born blind, 
If this man were not of God, he could have done nothing. 
They answered and said unto him, Thou art altogether born in sins, and doest 
thou teach us? So they cast him out. 
Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and when he had found him, he said 
unto him, Doest thou believe in the Son of God? 
He answered, and said, Who is he, Lord, that I might believe in him? 
And Jesus said unto him, Both thou hast seen him, and he it is that talketh 
with thee. 
Then he said, Lord I believe, and worshipped him. 
And Jesus said, I am come unto judgment into this world, that they which see 
not, might see, and that they which see, might be made blind. 
And some of the Pharisees which were with him, heard these things, and said 
unto him, Are we blind also? 
Jesus said unto them, If ye were blind, ye should not have sin; but now ye 
say, We see, therefore your sin remaineth.

Chapter 10
Christ proveth that the Pharisees are the evil shepherds, and by many reasons, that himself. 
11-is the good shepherd; And therefore dissension ariseth. They take up stones, and 
go about to take him, but he escapeth. 
Verily, verily I say unto you, He that entereth not in by the door into the 
sheepfold, but climbeth up another way, he is a thief and a robber. 
But he that goeth in by the door, is the shepherd of the sheep. 
To him the porter openeth, and the sheep hear his voice, and he calleth his 
own sheep by name, and leadeth them out. 
And when he hath sent forth his own sheep, he goeth before them, and the 
sheep follow him, for they know his voice. 
And they will not follow a stranger, but they flee from him, for they know not 
the voice of strangers. 
This parable spake Jesus unto them, but they understood not what things they 
were which he spake unto them. 
Then said Jesus unto them again, Verily, verily I say unto you, I am the door of 
the sheep. 
All that ever came before me, are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not 
hear them. 
I am the door; by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in, and 
go out, and find pasture. 
The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to destroy; I am come 
that they might have life, and have it in abundance. 
I am that good shepherd; that good shepherd giveth his life for his sheep. 
But a hireling, and he which is not the shepherd, neither the sheep are his 
own, seeth the wolf coming, and he leaveth the sheep, and fleeth, and the wolf 
catcheth them, and scattereth the sheep. 
So the hireling fleeth, because he is a hireling, and careth not for the sheep. 
I am the good shepherd, and know mine, and am known of mine. 
As the Father knoweth me, so know I the Father; and I lay down my life for 
my sheep. 
Other sheep I have also, which are not of this fold; them also must I bring, 
and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one sheepfold, and one shepherd. 
Therefore doeth my Father love me, because I lay down my life, that I might 
take it again. 
No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it 
down, and have power to take it again. This commandment have I received of 
my Father. 
Then there was a dissension again among the Jews for these sayings, 
And many of them said, He hath a devil, and is mad. Why hear ye him? 
Others said, These are not the words of him that hath a devil. Can the devil 
open the eyes of the blind? 
And it was at Jerusalem the feast of the Dedication, and it was winter. 
And Jesus walked in the Temple, in Solomon’s porch. 
Then came the Jews round about him, and said unto him, How long doest 
thou make us to doubt? If thou be the Christ, tell us plainly. 
Jesus answered them, I told you, and ye believe not; the works that I do in my 
Father’s Name, they bear witness of me. 
But ye believe not, for ye are not of my sheep, as I said unto you. 
My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. 
And I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall 
any pluck them out of my hand. 
My Father which gave them me, is greater than all, and none is able to take 
them out of my Father’s hand. 
I and my Father are one. 
Then the Jews again took up stones, to stone him. 
Jesus answered them, Many good works have I shewed you from my Father; 
for which of these works do ye stone me? 
The Jews answered him, saying, For the good work we stone thee not, but for 
blasphemy, and that thou being a man, makest thyself God. 
Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your Law, I said, Ye are gods? 
If he called them gods, unto whom the word of God was given, and the 
Scripture cannot be broken, 
Say ye of him, whom the Father hath sanctified, and sent into the world, Thou 
blasphemest, because I said, I am the Son of God? 
If I do not the works of my Father, believe me not. 
But if I do, then though ye believe not me, yet believe the works, that ye may 
know and believe, that the Father is in me, and I in him. 
Again they went about to take him, but he escaped out of their hands, 
And went again beyond Jordan, into the place where John first baptized, and 
there abode. 
And many resorted unto him, and said, John did no miracle, but all things 
that John spake of this man, were true. 
And many believed in him there. 

Chapter 11
Christ, to shew that he is, the life and resurrection, cometh to Lazarus being dead, 17, 
and buried, and raiseth him up. As the Priests were consulting together, Caiaphas 
prophesieth that one must die for the people. 56, They command to seek Christ out, and to 
take him. 
And a certain man was sick, named Lazarus of Bethany, the town of Mary, and 
her sister Martha. 
(And it was that Mary which anointed the Lord with ointment, and wiped his 
feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick.) 
Therefore his sisters sent unto him, saying, Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest, 
is sick. 
When Jesus heard it, he said, This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory 
of God, that the Son of God might be glorified thereby. 
Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister, and Lazarus. 
And after he had heard that he was sick, yet abode he two days still in the 
same place where he was. 
Then after that, said he to his disciples, Let us go into Judea again. 
The disciples said unto him, Master, the Jews lately sought to stone thee, and 
doest thou go thither again? 
Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If a man walk in the 
day, he stumbleth not, because he seeth the light of this world. 

But if a man walk in the night, he stumbleth, because there is no light in him. 
These things spake he, and after, he said unto them, Our friend Lazarus 
sleepeth; but I go to wake him up. 
Then said his disciples, Lord, if he sleep, he shall be safe. 
Howbeit, Jesus spake of his death, but they thought that he had spoken of the 
natural sleep. 
Then said Jesus unto them plainly, Lazarus is dead. 
And I am glad for your sakes, that I was not there, that ye may believe; but let 
us go unto him. 
Then said Thomas (which is called Didymus) unto his fellow disciples, Let us 
also go, that we may die with him. 
Then came Jesus, and found that he had lain in the grave four days 
already. 
(Now Bethany was near unto Jerusalem, about fifteen furlongs off.) 
And many of the Jews were come to Martha and Mary to comfort them for 
their brother. 
Then Martha, when she heard that Jesus was coming, went to meet him, but 
Mary sat still in the house. 
Then said Martha unto Jesus, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had 
not been dead. 
But now I know also, that whatsoever thou askest of God, God will give it 
thee. 
Jesus said unto her, Thy brother shall rise again. 
Martha said unto him, I know that he shall rise again in the resurrection at the 
last day. 
Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection and the life; he that believeth in me, 
though he were dead yet shall he live. 
And whosoever liveth, and believeth in me, shall never die. Believest thou 
this? 
She said unto him, Yea, Lord, I believe that thou art the Christ the Son of God, 
which should come into the world. 
And when she had so said, she went her way, and called Mary her sister 
secretly, saying, The Master is come, and calleth for thee. 
And when she heard it, she arose quickly, and came unto him. 
For Jesus was not yet come into the town, but was in the place where Martha 
met him. 
The Jews then which were with her in the house, and comforted her, when 
they saw Mary, that she rose up hastily, and went out, followed her, saying, She 
goeth unto the grave, to weep there. 
Then when Mary was come where Jesus was, and saw him, she fell down at 
his feet, saying unto him, Lord if thou hadst been here, my brother had not been 
dead. 
When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews also weeping which 
came with her, he groaned in the spirit, and was troubled in himself, 
And said, Where have ye laid him? They said unto him, Lord, come and see. 
And Jesus wept. 
Then said the Jews, Behold, how he loved him. 
And some of them said, Could not he which opened the eyes of the blind, 
have made also, that this man should not have died? 
Jesus therefore again groaned in himself, and came to the grave. And it was a 
cave, and a stone was laid upon it. 
Jesus said, Take ye away the stone. Martha the sister of him that was dead, 
said unto him, Lord he stinketh already, for he hath been dead four days. 
Jesus said unto her, Said I not unto thee, that if thou didst believe, thou 
shouldest see the glory of God? 
Then they took away the stone from the place where the dead was laid. And 
Jesus lifted up his eyes, and said, Father, I thank thee, because thou hast heard 
me. 
I know that thou hearest me always, but because of the people that stand by, I 
said it, that they may believe, that thou hast sent me. 
As he had spoken these things, he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come 
forth. 
Then he that was dead, came forth, bound hand and foot with bands, and his 
face was bound with a napkin. Jesus said unto them, Loose him, and let him go. 
Then many of the Jews, which came to Mary, and had seen the things, 
which Jesus did, believed in him. 
But some of them went their way to the Pharisees, and told them what things 
Jesus had done. 
Then gathered the high Priests, and the Pharisees a council, and said, What 
shall we do? For this man doeth many miracles. 
If we let him thus alone, all men will believe in him, and the Romans will 
come and take away both our place, and the nation. 
Then one of them named Caiaphas, which was the high Priest that same year, 
said unto them, Ye perceive nothing at all, 
Nor yet do you consider that it is expedient for us, that one man die for the 
people, and that the whole nation perish not. 
This spake he not of himself, but being high Priest that same year, he 
prophesied that Jesus should die for the nation, 
And not for the nation only, but that he should gather together in one the 
children of God, which were scattered. 
Then from that day forth they consulted together, to put him to death. 
Jesus therefore walked no more openly among the Jews, but went thence unto 
a country near to the wilderness, into a city called Ephraim, and there continued 
with his disciples. 
And the Jews’ Passover was at hand, and many went out of the country up 
to Jerusalem before the Passover, to purify themselves. 
Then sought they for Jesus, and spake among themselves, as they stood in the 
Temple, What think ye, that he cometh not to the feast? 
Now both the high Priests and the Pharisees had given a commandment, that 
if any man knew where he were, he should shew it, that they might take him. 

Chapter 12
As Christ is at supper with Lazarus, Mary anointeth his feet. Judas findeth fault with her. 
Christ defendeth her. The Priests would put Lazarus to death. As Christ cometh to 
Jerusalem. The people meet him. The Grecians desire to see him. The chief rulers that 
believe in him, but for fear do not confess him, he exhorteth to faith. 
Then Jesus, six days before the Passover, came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, 
who died, whom he had raised from the dead. 
There they made him a supper, and Martha served; but Lazarus was one of 
them that sat at the table with him. 
Then took Mary a pound of ointment of Spikenard very costly, and anointed 
Jesus’ feet, and wiped his feet with her hair, and the house was filled with the 
savor of the ointment. 
Then said one of his disciples, even Judas Iscariot, Simon’s son, which should 
betray him, 
Why was not this ointment sold for three hundred pence, and given to the 
poor? 
Now he said this, not that he cared for the poor, but because he was a thief, 
and had the bag, and bare that which was given. 
Then said Jesus, Let her alone, against the day of my burying she kept it. 
For the poor always ye have with you, but me ye shall not have always. 
Then much people of the Jews knew that he was there; and they came, not for 
Jesus’ sake only, but that they might see Lazarus also, whom he had raised from 
the dead. 
The high Priests therefore consulted, that they might put Lazarus to death 
also, 
Because that for his sake many of the Jews went away, and believed in Jesus. 
On the morrow a great multitude that were come to the feast, when they 
heard that Jesus should come to Jerusalem, 
Took branches of palm trees, and went forth to meet him, and cried, Hosanna, 
Blessed is the King of Israel that cometh in the Name of the Lord. 
And Jesus found a young ass, and sat thereon, as it is written. 
Fear not, daughter of Sion; behold, thy King cometh sitting on an ass’s colt. 
But his disciples understood not these things at the first; but when Jesus was 
glorified, then remembered they, that these things were written of him, and that 
they had done these things unto him. 
The people therefore that was with him, bare witness that he called Lazarus 
out of the grave and raised him from the dead. 
Therefore met him the people also, because they heard that he had done this 
miracle. 
And the Pharisees said among themselves, Perceive ye how ye prevail 
nothing? Behold, the world goeth after him. 
Now there were certain Greeks among them that came up to worship at the 
feast. 
And they came to Philip, which was of Bethsaida in Galilee, and desired him, 
saying, Sir, we would see Jesus. 
Philip came and told Andrew; and again Andrew and Philip told Jesus. 
And Jesus answered them, saying, The hour is come, that the Son of man 
must be glorified. 
Verily, verily I say unto you, Except the wheat corn fall into the ground and 
die, it abideth alone; but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. 
He that loveth his life, shall lose it, and he that hateth his life in this world, 
shall keep it unto life eternal. 
If any man serve me, let him follow me; for where I am, there shall also my 
servant be; and if any man serve me, him will my Father honor. 
Now is my soul troubled; and what shall I say? Father, save me from this 
hour; but therefore came I unto this hour. 
Father, glorify thy Name. Then came there a voice from heaven, saying, I have 
both glorified it, and will glorify it again. 
Then said the people that stood by, and heard, that it was a thunder; others 
said, An Angel spake to him. 
Jesus answered, and said, This voice came not because of me, but for your 
sakes. 
Now is the judgment of this world; now shall the prince of this world be cast 
out. 
And I, if I were lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me. 
Now this said he, signifying what death he should die. 
The people answered him, We have heard out of the Law, that Christ bideth 
forever; and how sayest thou, that the Son of man must be lifted up? Who is that 
Son of man? 
Then Jesus said unto them, Yet a little while is the light with you. Walk while 
ye have the light, lest the darkness come upon you; for he that walketh in the 
dark, knoweth not whither he goeth. 
While ye have that light, believe in the light, that ye may be the children of 
the light. These things spake Jesus, and departed, and hid himself from them. 
And though he had done so many miracles before them, yet believed they 
not on him, 
That the saying of Isaiah the Prophet might be fulfilled, that he said, Lord, 
who believed our report? And to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? 
Therefore could they not believe, because that Isaiah saith again, 
He hath blinded their eyes, and hardened their heart, that they should not see 
with their eyes, nor understand with their heart, and should be converted, and I 
should heal them. 
These things said Isaiah when he saw his glory, and spake of him. 
Nevertheless, even among the chief rulers, many believed in him, but because 
of the Pharisees they did not confess him, lest they should be cast out of the 
Synagogue. 
For they loved the praise of men, more than the praise of God. 
And Jesus cried, and said, He that believeth in me, believeth not in me, but in 
him that sent me. 
And he that seeth me, seeth him that sent me. 
I am come a light into the world, that whosoever believeth in me, should not 
abide in darkness. 
And if any man hear my words, and believe not, I judge him not; for I came 
not to judge the world, but to save the world. 
He that refuseth me, and receiveth not my words, hath one that judgeth him; 
the word that I have spoken, it shall judge him in the last day. 
For I have not spoken of myself, but the Father which sent me, he gave me a 
commandment what I should say, and what I should speak. 
And I know that his commandment is life everlasting; the things therefore 
that I speak, I speak them so as the Father said unto me.

Chapter 13
Christ rising from supper, to command humility to his Apostles, washeth their feet. He 
noteth the traitor Judas, with an evident token. He commendeth charity. 37-He 
foretelleth Peter of his denial. 
Now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour was 
come, that he should depart out of this world unto the Father, for as much as he 
loved his own which were in the world, unto the end he loved them. 
And when supper was done (and that the devil had now put in the heart of 
Judas Iscariot, Simon’s son, to betray him.) 
Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he 
was come forth from God, and went to God, 
He riseth from supper, and layeth aside his upper garments, and took a towel, 
and girded himself. 
After that, he poured water into a basin, and began to wash the disciples’ feet, 
and to wipe them with the towel, wherewith he was girded. 
Then came he to Simon Peter, who said to him, Lord, doest thou wash my feet? 
Jesus answered, and said unto him, What I do thou knowest not now, but thou 
shalt know it hereafter. 
Peter said unto him, Thou shalt never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I 
wash thee not, thou shalt have no part with me. 
Simon Peter said unto him, Lord, not my feet only, but also the hands and the 
head. 
Jesus said to him, He that is washed, needeth not, save to wash his feet, but is 
clean every whit; and ye are clean, but not all. 
For he knew who should betray him; therefore said he, Ye are not all clean. 
So after he had washed their feet, and had taken his garments, and was set 
down again, he said unto them, Know ye what I have done to you? 
Ye call me Master, and Lord, and ye say well, for so am I. 
If I then your Lord, and Master, have washed your feet, ye also ought to wash 
one another’s feet. 
For I have given you an example, that ye should do, even as I have done to 
you. 
Verily, verily I say unto you, The servant is not greater than his master, 
neither the ambassador greater than he that sent him. 
If ye know these things, blessed are ye if ye do them. 
I speak not of you all. I know whom I have chosen; but it is that the 
Scripture might be fulfilled, He that eateth bread with me, hath lifted up his heel 
against me. 
From henceforth tell I you before it come, that when it is come to pass, ye 
might believe that I am he. 
Verily, verily I say unto you, If I send any, he that receiveth him, receiveth 
me, and he that receiveth me, receiveth him that sent me. 
When Jesus had said these things, he was troubled in the Spirit, and testified, 
and said, Verily, verily I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me. 
Then the disciples looked one on another, doubting of whom he spake. 
Now there was one of his disciples, which leaned on Jesus’ bosom, whom 
Jesus loved. 
To him beckoned therefore Simon Peter, that he should ask who it was of 
whom he spake. 
He then as he leaned on Jesus’ breast, said unto him, Lord, who is it? 
Jesus answered, He it is, to whom I shall give a sop, when I have dipped it.
And he wet a sop, and gave it to Judas Iscariot, Simon’s son. 
And after the sop, Satan entered into him. Then said Jesus unto him, That 
thou doest, do quickly. 
But none of them that were at table, knew, for what cause he spake it unto 
him. 
For some of them thought because Judas had the bag, that Jesus had said unto 
him, Buy those things that we have need of against the feast; or that he should 
give something to the poor. 
As soon then as he had received the sop, he went immediately out, and it was 
night. 
When he was gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son of man glorified, and 
God is glorified in him. 
If God be glorified in him, God shall also glorify him in himself, and shall 
straightway glorify him. 
Little children, yet a little while am I with you. Ye shall seek me, but as I said 
unto the Jews, Whither I go, can ye not come. Also to you say I now. 
A new commandment give I unto you, that ye love one another, as I have 
loved you, that ye also love one another. 
By this shall all men know, that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to 
another. 
Simon Peter said unto him, Lord, whither goest thou? Jesus answered him, 
Whither I go, thou canst not follow me now; but thou shalt follow me afterwards. 
Peter said unto him, Lord, why can I not follow thee now? I will lay down my 
life for thy sake. 
Jesus answered him, Wilt thou lay down thy life for my sake? Verily, verily I 
say unto thee, The cock shall not crow, till thou have denied me thrice.

Chapter 14
He comforteth his disciples, 2, declaring his divinity and the fruit of his death, promising 
the comforter, even the holy Spirit, whose office he setteth out. He promiseth his peace. 
Let not your heart be troubled; ye believe in God, believe also in me. 
In my Father’s house are many dwelling places; if it were not so, I would have 
told you; I go to prepare a place for you. 
And if I go to prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto 
myself, that where I am, there may ye be also. 
And whither I go, ye know, and the way ye know. 
Thomas said unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest, how can we 
then know the way? 
Jesus said unto him, I am the Way, and the Truth, and the Life. No man 
cometh unto the Father, but by me. 
If ye had known me, ye should have known my Father also; and from 
henceforth ye know him, and have seen him. 
Philip said unto him, Lord, shew us thy Father, and it sufficeth us. 
Jesus said unto him, I have been so long time with you, and hast thou not 
known me, Philip? He that hath seen me, hath seen my Father; how then sayest 
thou, Shew us thy Father? 
Believest thou not, that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me? The words 
that I speak unto you, I speak not of myself, but the Father that dwelleth in me, 
he doeth the works. 
Believe me, that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me; at the least, believe 
me for the very works’ sake. 
Verily, verily I say unto you, he that believeth in me, the works that I do, he 
shall do also, and greater than these shall he do; for I go unto my Father. 
And whatsoever ye ask in my Name, that will I do, that the Father may be 
glorified in the Son. 
If ye shall ask anything in my Name, I will do it. 
If ye love me, keep my commandments, 
And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he 
may abide with you forever, 
Even the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him 
not, neither knoweth him, but ye know him, for he dwelleth with you, and shall 
be in you. 
I will not leave you fatherless; but I will come to you. 
Yet a little while, and the world shall see me no more, but ye shall see me; 
because I live, ye shall live also. 
At that day shall ye know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you. 
He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, is he that loveth me, and 
he that loveth me, shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will shew 
my own self to him. 
Judas said unto him, (not Iscariot) Lord, what is the cause that thou wilt shew 
thyself unto us, and not unto the world? 
Jesus answered, and said unto him, If any man love me, he will keep my 
word, and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and will dwell 
with him. 

He that loveth me not, keepeth not my words, and the word which ye hear, 
is not mine, but the Father’s which sent me. 
These things have I spoken unto you, being present with you. 
But the Comforter, which is the holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my 
Name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, 
which I have told you. 
Peace I leave with you; my peace I give unto you; not as the world giveth, 
give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, nor fear. 
Ye have heard how I said unto you, I go away, and will come unto you. If ye 
loved me, ye would verily rejoice, because I said, I go unto the Father, for my 
Father is greater than I. 
And now have I spoken unto you, before it come, that when it is come to 
pass, ye might believe. 
Hereafter will I not speak many things unto you, for the prince of this world 
cometh, and hath nought in me. 
But it is that the world may know that I love my Father, and as the Father hath 
commanded me, so I do. Arise, let us go hence.

Chapter 15
By the parable of the vine, and the branches, 5-he declareth how disciples may bear fruit. 
12-He commendeth mutual love. He exhorteth them to bear afflictions patiently, by his 
own example. 
I Am the true vine, and my Father is the husbandman. 
Every branch that beareth not fruit in me, he taketh away; and every one that 
beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. 
Now are ye clean through the word, which I have spoken unto you. 
Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it 
abide in the vine, no more can ye, except ye abide in me. 
I am that vine, ye are the branches; he that abideth in me, and I in him, the 
same bringeth forth much fruit, for without me can ye do nothing. 
If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch, and withereth; and men 
gather them, and cast them into the fire, and they burn. 
If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask what ye will, and it shall be 
done to you.
Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit, and be made my 
disciples. 
As the father hath loved me, so have I loved you; continue in my love. 
If ye shall keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love, as I have kept 
my Father’s commandments, and abide in his love. 
These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in you, and 
that your joy might be full. 
This is my commandment, that ye love one another, as I have loved you. 
Greater love than this hath no man, when any man bestoweth his life for his 
friends. 
Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command you. 
Henceforth call I you not servants, for the servant knoweth not what his 
master doeth; but I have called you friends, for all things that I have heard of my 
Father, have I made known to you. 
Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye go 
and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit remain, that whatsoever ye shall ask of 
the Father in my Name, he may give it you. 
These things command I you, that ye love one another. 
If the world hate you, ye know that it hated me before you. 
If ye were of the world, the world would love his own; but because ye are not 
of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth 
you. 
Remember the word that I said unto you, The servant is not greater than his 
master. If they have persecuted me, they will persecute you also; if they have 
kept my word, they will also keep yours. 
But all these things will they do unto you for my Name’s sake, because they 
have not known him that sent me. 
If I had not come and spoken unto them, they should not have had sin, but 
now have they no cloak for their sin. 
He that hateth me, hateth my Father also. 
If I had not done works among them which none other man did, they had not 
had sin; but now have they both seen, and have hated both me, and my Father. 
But it is that the word might be fulfilled, that is written in their Law, They 
hated me without a cause. 
But when that Comforter shall come, whom I will send unto you from the 
Father, even the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth of the Father, he shall testify of 
me. 
And ye shall witness also, because ye have been with me from the beginning.

Chapter 16
He foretelleth the disciples of persecution. He promiseth the Comforter, and declareth his 
office. He compareth the affliction of his, to a woman that travaileth with child. 
These things have I said unto you, that ye should not be offended. 
They shall excommunicate you, yea, the time shall come, that whosoever 
killeth you, will think that he doth God service. 
And these things will they do unto you, because they have not known the 
Father, nor me. 
But these things have I told you, that when the hour shall come, ye might 
remember, that I told you them. And these things said I not unto you from the 
beginning, because I was with you. 
But now I go my way to him that sent me, and none of you asketh me, Whither 
goest thou? 
But because I have said these things unto you, your hearts are full of sorrow. 
Yet I tell you the truth, It is expedient for you that I go away; for if I go not 
away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I depart, I will send him unto 
you. 
And when he is come, he will reprove the world of sin, and of righteousness, 
and of judgment. 
Of sin, because they believed not in me; 
Of righteousness, because I go to my Father, and ye shall see me no more. 
Of judgment, because the prince of this world is judged. 
I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now. 
Howbeit, when he is come which is the Spirit of truth, he will lead you into 
all truth; for he shall not speak of himself, but whatsoever he shall hear, shall he 
speak, and he will shew you the things to come. 
He shall glorify me, for he shall receive of mine, and shall shew it unto you. 
All things that the Father hath, are mine; therefore said I, that he shall take of 
mine, and shew it unto you. 
A little while, and ye shall not see me; and again a little while, and ye shall see 
me; for I go to the Father. 
Then said some of his disciples among themselves, What is this that he saith 
unto us, A little while, and ye shall not see me, and again a little while, and ye 
shall see me, and, For I go to the Father. 
They said therefore, What is this that he saith, A little while? We know not 
what he saith. 
Now Jesus knew that they would ask him, and said unto them, Do ye enquire 
among yourselves, of that I said, A little while, and ye shall not see me, and again, 
a little while, and ye shall see me? 
Verily, verily I say unto you, that ye shall weep and lament, and the world 
shall rejoice, and ye shall sorrow, but your sorrow shall be turned to joy. 
A woman when she travaileth hath sorrow because her hour is come; but as 
soon as she is delivered of the child, she remembereth no more the anguish, for 
joy that a man is born into the world. 
And ye now therefore are in sorrow; but I will see you again, and your hearts 
shall rejoice, and your joy shall no man take from you. 
And in that day shall ye ask me nothing. Verily, verily, I say unto you, 
whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my Name, he will give it you. 
Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my Name; ask, and ye shall receive, that 
your joy may be full. 
These things have I spoken unto you in parables; but the time will come, 
when I shall no more speak to you in parables, but I shall shew you plainly of the 
Father. 
At that day shall ye ask in my Name, and I say not unto you, that I will pray 
unto the Father for you; 
For the Father himself loveth you, because ye have loved me, and have 
believed that I came out from God. 
I am come out from the Father, and came into the world; again I leave the 
world, and go to the Father. 
His disciples said unto him, Lo, now speakest thou plainly, and thou speakest 
no parable. 
Now know we that thou knowest all things, and needest not that any man 
should ask thee. By this we believe, that thou art come out from God. 
Jesus answered them, Do you believe now? 
Behold, the hour cometh, and is already come, that ye shall be scattered every 
man into his own, and shall leave me alone; but I am not alone, for the Father is 
with me. 
These things have I spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace. In the 
world ye shall have affliction, but be of good comfort; I have overcome the 
world.

Chapter 17
Christ prayeth that his glory together with his Father may be made manifest. He prayeth for 
his Apostles, and for all believers. 
These things spake Jesus, and lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, Father, the 
hour is come; glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee, 
As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to 
all them that thou hast given him. 
And this is life eternal, that they know thee to be the only very God, and whom 
thou hast sent, Jesus Christ. 
I have glorified thee on the earth, I have finished the work which thou gavest 
me to do. 
And now glorify me, thou Father, with thine own self, with the glory which I 
had with thee before the world was. 
I have declared thy Name unto the men which thou gavest me out of the 
world; thine they were, and thou gavest them me, and they have kept thy word. 
Now they know that all things whatsoever thou hast given me, are of thee. 
For I have given unto them the words which thou gavest me, and they have 
received them, and have known surely that I came out from thee, and have 
believed that thou hast sent me. 
I pray for them; I pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast given 
me; for they are thine. 
And all mine are thine, and thine are mine, and I am glorified in them. 
And now am I no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to 
thee. Holy Father, keep them in thy Name, even them whom thou hast given me, 
that they may be one as we are. 
While I was with them in the world, I kept them in thy Name; those that thou 
gavest me, have I kept, and none of them is lost, but the child of perdition, that 
the Scripture might be fulfilled. 
And now come I to thee, and these things speak I in the world, that they 
might have my joy fulfilled in themselves. 
I have given them thy word, and the world hath hated them, because they are 
not of the world, as I am not of the world. 
I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou keep 
them from evil. 
They are not of the world, as I am not of the world. 
Sanctify them with thy truth; thy word is truth. 
As thou didst send me into the world, so have I sent them into the world. 
And for their sakes sanctify I myself, that they also may be sanctified through 
the truth. 
I pray not for these alone, but for them also which shall believe in me, 
through their word, 
That they all may be one, as thou, O Father, art in me, and I in thee, even that 
they may be also one in us, that the world may believe that thou hast sent me. 
And the glory that thou gavest me, I have given them, that they may be one, 
as we are one, 
I in them, and thou in me, that they may be made perfect in one, and that the 
world may know that thou hast sent me, and hast loved them as thou hast loved 
me. 
Father, I will that they which thou hast given me, be with me even where I 
am, that they may behold my glory, which thou hast given me, for thou lovedst 
me before the foundation of the world. 
O righteous Father, the world also hath not known thee, but I have known 
thee, and these have known, that thou hast sent me. 
And I have declared unto them thy Name, and will declare it, that the love 
wherewith thou hast loved me, may be in them, and I in them.

Chapter 18
By Christ's power, whom Judas betrayeth, the soldiers are cast down to the ground. 
Christ is led to Annas, and from him to Caiaphas. 22-His answer to the officer that smote 
him with a rod. Being delivered to Pilate, he declareth his kingdom. 
When Jesus had spoken these things, he went forth with his disciples over the 
brook Cedron, where was a garden, into the which he entered, and his disciples. 
And Judas which betrayed him knew also the place, for Jesus oft times 
resorted thither with his disciples. 
Judas then, after he had received a band of men and officers of the high Priests, 
and of the Pharisees, came thither with lanterns and torches, and weapons. 
Then Jesus, knowing all things that should come unto him, went forth and said 
unto them, Whom seek ye? 
They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus said unto them, I am he. Now 
Judas also which betrayed him, stood with them. 
As soon then as he had said unto them, I am he, they went away backwards, 
and fell to the ground. 
Then he asked them again, Whom seek ye? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth. 
Jesus answered, I said unto you, that I am he; therefore if ye seek me, let these 
go their way. 
This was that the word might be fulfilled which he spake, Of them which thou 
gavest me, have I lost none. 
Then Simon Peter having a sword, drew it, and smote the high Priest’s 
servant, and cut off his right ear. Now the servants name was Malchus. 
Then said Jesus unto Peter, Put up thy sword into the sheath; shall I not drink 
of the cup which my Father hath given me? 
Then the band and the captain, and the officers of the Jews took Jesus and 
bound him. 
And led him away to Annas first (for he was father in law to Caiaphas, which 
was the high Priest that same year.) 
And Caiaphas was he, that gave counsel to the Jews, that it was expedient 
that one man should die for the people. 
Now Simon Peter followed Jesus, and another disciple, and that disciple 
was known of the high Priest, therefore he went in with Jesus into the hall of the 
high Priest, 
But Peter stood at the door without. Then went out the other disciple which 
was known unto the high Priest, and spake to her that kept the door, and 
brought in Peter. 
Then said the maid that kept the door, unto Peter, Art not thou also one of 
this man’s disciples? He said, I am not. 
And the servants and officers stood there, which had made a fire of coals, for 
it was cold, and they warmed themselves. And Peter also stood among them, 
and warmed himself. 
(The high Priest then asked Jesus of his disciples, and of his doctrine. 
Jesus answered him, I spake openly to the world; I ever taught in the 
Synagogue and in the Temple, whither the Jews resort continually, and in secret 
have I said nothing. 
Why askest thou me? Ask them which heard me what I said unto them; 
behold, they know what I said. 
When he had spoken these things, one of the officers which stood by, smote 
Jesus with his rod, saying, Answerest thou the high Priest so? 
Jesus answered him, If I have evil spoken, bear witness of the evil; but if I 
have well spoken, why smitest thou me? 
Now Annas had sent him bound unto Caiaphas the high Priest.) 
And Simon Peter stood and warmed himself, and they said unto him, Art not 
thou also of his disciples? He denied it, and said, I am not. 
One of the servants of the high Priest, his cousin whose ear Peter smote off, 
said, Did not I see thee in the garden with him? 
Peter then denied again, and immediately the cock crew. 
Then led they Jesus from Caiaphas into the common hall. Now it was 
morning, and they themselves went not into the common hall, lest they should 
be defiled, but that they might eat the Passover. 
Pilate then went out unto them, and said, What accusation bring ye against 
this man? 
They answered, and said unto him, If he were not an evil doer, we would not 
have delivered him unto thee. 
Then said Pilate unto them, Take ye him, and judge him after your own Law. 
Then the Jews said unto him, It is not lawful for us to put any man to death. 
It was that the word of Jesus might be fulfilled which he spake, signifying 
what death he should die. 
So Pilate entered into the common hall again, and called Jesus, and said unto 
him, Art thou the king of the Jews? 
Jesus answered him, Sayest thou that of thyself, or did others tell it thee of 
me? 
Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Thine own nation, and the high Priests have 
delivered thee unto me. What hast thou done? 
Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world; if my kingdom were of this 
world, my servants would surely fight, that I should not be delivered to the Jews; 
but now is my kingdom not from hence. 
Pilate then said unto him, Art thou a King then? Jesus answered, Thou sayest 
that I am a King. For this cause am I born, and for this cause came I into the 
world, that I should bear witness unto the truth. Every one that is of the truth, 
heareth my voice. 
Pilate said unto him, What is truth? And when he had said that, he went out 
again unto the Jews, and said unto them, I find in him no cause at all. 
But you have a custom that I should deliver you one loose at the Passover; 
will ye then that I loose unto you the King of the Jews? 
Then cried they all again, saying, Not him, but Barabbas. Now this Barabbas 
was a murderer. 

Chapter 19
Pilate, when Christ was scourged, and crowned with thrones, as desirous to let him loose; 
but being overcome with the outrage of the Jews, he delivereth him to be crucified. Jesus 
committeth his mother to the disciple. Having tasted vinegar, he dieth; and being dead, his 
side was pierced with a spear. He is buried. 
Then Pilate took Jesus, and scourged him. 
And the soldiers platted a crown of thorns, and put it on his head, and they 
put on him a purple garment, 
And said, Hail, King of the Jews. And they smote him with their rods. 
Then Pilate went forth again, and said unto them, Behold, I bring him forth to 
you, that ye may know, that I find no fault in him at all. 
Then came Jesus forth wearing a crown of thorns, and a purple garment. And 
Pilate said unto them, Behold the man. 
Then when the high Priests and officers saw him, they cried, saying, Crucify, 
crucify him. Pilate said unto them, Take ye him, and crucify him, for I find no 
fault in him. 
The Jews answered him, We have a law, and by our law he ought to die, 
because he made himself the Son of God. 
When Pilate then heard that word, he was the more afraid, 
And went again into the common hall, and said unto Jesus, Whence art thou? 
But Jesus gave him no answer. 
Then said Pilate unto him, Speakest thou not unto me? Knowest thou not that 
I have power to crucify thee, and have power to loose thee? 
Jesus answered, Thou couldest have no power at all against me, except it 
were given thee from above; therefore he that delivered me unto thee, hath the 
greater sin. 
From thenceforth Pilate sought to loose him, but the Jews cried, saying, If 
thou deliver him, thou art not Caesar’s friend; for whosoever maketh himself a 
King, speaketh against Caesar. 
When Pilate heard this word, he brought Jesus forth, and sat down in the 
judgment seat in a place called the Pavement, and in Hebrew, Gabbatha. 
And it was the Preparation of the Passover, and about the sixth hour, and he 
said unto the Jews, Behold your King. 
But they cried, Away with him, away with him, crucify him. Pilate said unto 
them, Shall I crucify your King? The high Priests answered, We have no King but 
Caesar. 
Then delivered he him unto them, to be crucified. And they took Jesus, and 
led him away. 
And he bare his own cross, and came into a place named of dead men’s Skulls, 
which is called in Hebrew, Golgotha; 
Where they crucified him, and two others with him, on either side one, and 
Jesus in the midst. 
And Pilate wrote also a title, and put it on the cross, and it was written, 
JESUS OF NAZARETH THE KING OF THE JEWS. 
This title then read many of the Jews, for the place where Jesus was crucified, 
was near to the city; and it was written in Hebrew, Greek and Latin. 
Then said the high Priests of the Jews to Pilate, Write not, The King of the 
Jews, but that he said, I am King of the Jews. 
Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written. 
Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments (and 
made four parts, to every soldier a part) and his coat; and the coat was without 
seam woven from the top throughout. 
Therefore they said one to another, Let us not divide it, but cast lots for it, 
whose it shall be. This was that the Scripture might be fulfilled, which saith, They 
parted my garments among them, and on my coat did cast lots. So the soldiers 
did these things indeed. 
Then stood by the cross of Jesus his mother, and his mother’s sister, Mary 
the wife of Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene. 
And when Jesus saw his mother, and the disciple standing by, whom he 
loved, he said unto his mother, Woman, behold thy son. 
Then said he to the disciple, Behold thy mother. And from that hour, the 
disciple took her home unto him. 
After, when Jesus knew that all things were performed, that the Scripture 
might be fulfilled, he said, I thirst. 
And there was set a vessel full of vinegar, and they filled a sponge with 
vinegar, and put it about a hyssop stalk, and put it to his mouth. 
Now when Jesus had received of the vinegar, he said, It is finished. And 
bowed his head, and gave up the ghost. 
The Jews then (because it was the Preparation, that the bodies should not 
remain upon the cross on the Sabbath day, for that Sabbath was a high day) 
besought Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken 
down. 
Then came the soldiers and brake the legs of the first, and of the other, which 
was crucified with Jesus. 
But when they came to Jesus, and saw that he was dead already, they brake 
not his legs. 
But one of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side, and forthwith came there 
out blood and water. 
And he that saw it, bare record, and his record is true; and he knoweth that 
he saith true, that ye might believe it. 
For these things were done, that the Scripture should be fulfilled, Not a bone 
of him shall be broken. 
And again another Scripture saith, They shall see him whom they have thrust 
through. 

And after these things, Joseph of Arimathea (who was a disciple of Jesus, but 
secretly for fear of the Jews) besought Pilate that he might take down the body of 
Jesus. And Pilate gave him license. He came then and took Jesus’ body. 
And there came also Nicodemus (which first came to Jesus by night) and 
brought of myrrh and aloes mingled together about a hundred pounds. 
Then took they the body of Jesus, and wrapped it in linen clothes with the 
odors, as the manner of the Jews is to bury. 
And in that place where Jesus was crucified, was a garden, and in the garden 
a new sepulcher, wherein was never man yet laid. 
There then laid they Jesus, because of the Jews’ Preparation day, for the 
sepulcher was near. 

Chapter 20
Mary bringeth word that Christ is risen. Peter and John run to see it. Jesus appeareth to 
Mary, and to the disciples that were together in the house, Thomas, before faithless, 
now believeth. 
Now the first day of the week came Mary Magdalene, early when it was yet 
dark, unto the sepulcher, and saw the stone taken away from the tomb. 
Then she ran, and came to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple, whom Jesus 
loved, and said unto them, They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulcher, 
and we know not where they have laid him. 
Peter therefore went forth, and the other disciple, and they came unto the 
sepulcher. 
So they ran both together, but the other disciple did outrun Peter, and came 
first to the sepulcher. 
And he stooped down, and saw the linen clothes lying; yet went he not in. 
Then came Simon Peter following him, and went into the sepulcher, and saw 
the linen clothes lie, 
And the kerchief that was upon his head, not lying with the linen clothes, but 
wrapped together in a place by itself. 
Then went in also the other disciple, which came first to the sepulcher, and he 
saw it, and believed. 
For as yet they knew not the Scripture, That he must rise again from the dead. 
And the disciples went away again unto their own home. 
But Mary stood without at the sepulcher weeping; and as she wept, she 
bowed herself into the sepulcher, 
And saw two Angels in white, sitting, the one at the head, and the other at the 
feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. 
And they said unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? She said unto them, 
They have taken away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid him. 
When she had thus said, she turned herself back, and saw Jesus standing, and 
knew not that it was Jesus. 
Jesus saith unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? Whom seekest thou? She 
supposing that he had been the gardener, said unto him, Sir, if thou hast borne 
him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away. 
Jesus saith unto her, Mary. She turned herself, and said unto him, Rabboni, 
which is to say, Master. 
Jesus saith unto her, Touch me not, for I am not yet ascended to my Father; 
but go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father, and to your 
Father, and to my God, and your God. 
Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord, and 
that he had spoken these things unto her. 
The same day then at night, which was the first day of the week, and when 
the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, 
came Jesus and stood in the midst, and said to them, Peace be unto you. 
And when he had so said, he shewed unto them his hands, and his side. Then 
were the disciples glad when they had seen the Lord. 
Then said Jesus to them again, Peace be unto you; as my Father sent me, so 
send I you. 
And when he had said that, he breathed on them, and said unto them, 
Receive the holy Ghost. 
Whosoever’s sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them; and whosoever’s sins 
ye retain, they are retained. 
But Thomas one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them when 
Jesus came. 
The other disciples therefore said unto him, We have seen the Lord. But he 
said unto them, Except I see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger 
into the print of the nails, and put my hand into his side, I will not believe it. 
And eight days after, again his disciples were within, and Thomas with 
them. Then came Jesus, when the doors were shut, and stood in the midst, and 
said, Peace be unto you. 
After said he to Thomas, Put thy finger here, and see my hands, and put forth 
thy hand, and put it into my side, and be not faithless, but faithful. 
Then Thomas answered and said unto him, Thou art my Lord, and my God. 
Jesus said unto him, Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou believest; 
blessed are they that have not seen, and have believed. 
And many other signs also did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which 
are not written in this book. 
But these things are written that ye might believe, that Jesus is the Christ the 
Son of God, and that in believing ye might have life through his Name. 

Chapter 21
Jesus appeareth to his disciples as they were a fishing, 6-whom thy knew by a miraculous 
draught of fishes. He committeth the charge of the sheep to Peter, and foretelleth him of 
the manner of his death. 
After these things, Jesus shewed himself again to his disciples at the sea of 
Tiberias; and thus shewed he himself; 
There were together Simon Peter, and Thomas, which is called Didymus, and 
Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two others of his 
disciples. 
Simon Peter said unto them, I go a fishing. They said unto him, We also will go 
with thee. They went their way and entered into a ship straightway, and that 
night caught they nothing. 
But when the morning was now come, Jesus stood on the shore; nevertheless 
the disciples knew not that it was Jesus. 
Jesus then said unto them, Sirs, have ye any meat? They answered him, No. 
Then he said unto them, Cast out the net on the right side of the ship, and ye 
shall find. So they cast out, and they were not able at all to draw it, for the 
multitude of fishes. 
Therefore said the disciple whom Jesus loved, unto Peter, It is the Lord. When 
Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he girded his coat to him (for he was 
naked) and cast himself into the sea. 
But the other disciples came by ship, (for they were not far from land, but 
about two hundred cubits) and they drew the net with fishes. 
As soon then as they were come to land, they saw hot coals, and fish laid 
thereon, and bread. 
Jesus said unto them, Bring of the fishes, which ye have now caught. 
Simon Peter stepped forth and drew the net to land, full of great fishes, a 
hundred, fifty and three; and albeit there were so many, yet was not the net 
broken. 
Jesus said unto them, Come, and dine. And none of the disciples durst ask 
him, Who art thou? Seeing they knew that he was the Lord. 
Jesus then came and took bread and gave them, and fish likewise. 
This is now the third time that Jesus shewed himself to his disciples, after that 
he was risen again from the dead. 
So when they had dined, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon the son of Jona, 
lovest thou me more than these? He said unto him, Yea, Lord, thou knowest that 
I love thee. He said unto him, Feed my lambs. 
He said to him again the second time, Simon the son of Jona, lovest thou me? 
He said unto him, Yea, Lord, thou knowest that I love thee. He said unto him, 
Feed my sheep. 
He said unto him the third time, Simon the son of Jona, lovest thou me? Peter 
was sorry because he said to him the third time, Lovest thou me? And said unto 
him, Lord, thou knowest all things; thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus said unto 
him, Feed my sheep. 
Verily, verily I say unto thee, When thou wast young, thou girdedst thyself, 
and walkedst whither thou wouldest; but when thou shalt be old, thou shalt 
stretch forth thy hands, and another shall gird thee, and lead thee whither thou 
wouldest not. 
And this spake he signifying by what death he should glorify God. And when 
he had said this, he said to him, Follow me. 
Then Peter turned about, and saw the disciple whom JESUS loved, following, 
which had also leaned on his breast at supper, and had said, Lord, which is he 
that betrayeth thee? 
When Peter therefore saw him, he said to Jesus, Lord, what shall this man do? 
Jesus said unto him, If I will that he tarry till I come, what is it to thee? Follow 
thou me. 
Then went this word abroad among the brethren, that this disciple should not 
die. Yet Jesus said not to him, He shall not die, but if I will that he tarry till I 
come, what is it to thee? 
This is that disciple, which testifieth of these things, and wrote these things, 
and we know that his testimony is true. 
Now there are also many other things which Jesus did, the which if they 
should be written every one, I suppose the world could not contain the books 
that should be written, Amen