Jesus saw a crowd, went to the hilltop, and lowered his backside. His people came to his side. Jesus gave knowledge to the people. He said this:
Some people know this: My spirit is bad. These people are good. The authority of Yahweh [henceforth rendered God] is theirs.
Some people feel bad. God will improve their feelings.
Some people know this: I'm lowly. These people will get land from God.
Some people want to be good. God will be very good to these people.
When some people are good to other people, these people are good. Other bad deeds of these people will be unimportant to God.
Some people don't want to know evil. These people are at the side of God.
Some people want to end violence. These people are the children of God.
Some people are good, but bad people destroy these good people. The authority of God is of these good people.
People will be evil to you. They'll say bad things to you because of this: You know me. But you are very good. Feel good. Feel good because of this: Something good is yours in Heaven. In the past, many people were bad to other good people.
You are sweet to all people. But if the sweetness is gone, you can't restore it. If the sweetness is gone, you can't use it. People will send it to the street underneath peoples feet.
You are light. People of all lands see you. You are a city on a hilltop.
People don't put a light underneath a bowl. They put it on a big stick. It lights the house.
Similarly, you're a light to other people. If you're good, other people see you and say this: God is good.
I don't want to destroy Mosaic law or the wisdom of the wise speakers. I don't want to destroy their wisdom. I want to make it real. If heaven and this earth exist, then all holy laws continue. When everything is finished, the holy law [henceforth rendered the Law] will be finished, too.
Maybe you don't do the little things of the Law. Maybe you say this to other people: Don't do the little things of the Law. If you say this, you are little in Heaven. But if you do everything of the Law and teach the Law to other people, you are big in Heaven.
I say this to you: The scholars of the Law and the Pharisees do the things of the Law. But if you want to go to Heaven, you must really do the things of the Law.
You hear this: Don't kill people. If you kill people, God may destroy you.
But I say this to you: Don't feel violent. If you feel violent, God may destroy you. If you say bad things to people, the authority-group [henceforth rendered court] may destroy you. Don't say, He's stupid. If you say this, you may go to the evil, hot underworld.
Maybe you're in the temple and want to give something good to God. But you know this: You're bad to someone else. Leave your good thing in the temple. Go to this other person. When you are good to this other person, come again to the temple. Now you can give your good thing to God.
If someone wants to bring you to court, be good to this person. In a short time, you must be very good to him. If you can't, the leading scholar will send you to the leading strongman. The strongman will hold you in a bad holding room. If you don't give all the money, you can't go from the holding room.
You hear this: Don't have sex evilly.
But I say this to you: If a man sees a woman and wants to have sex evilly with her, then this man is bad.
If your eye causes your evil, then remove it. You won't have an eye. But if you're bad, your whole body will go to the evil underworld.
If your hand causes your evil, then remove it. You won't have an hand. But if you're bad, your whole body will go to the evil underworld.
In the past, someone said this: If you don't want your woman, give a letter of separation desire to her.
But I say this to you: If a woman has sex evilly, her man can separate from her. But if a man separates from his woman for other things, this man is causing sexual evil. If a woman is separated from her man, don't have this woman. If you have sex with her, you are bad.
You hear this: If you say something, make it real. If you say something to God, you must make it real.
But I say this to you: If you say something, don't use intense speach. Don't speak intensely using Heaven. Heaven is God's. Don't speak intensely using the Earth. The Earth is God's. Don't speak intensely using Jerusalem. It is God's.
Don't speak intensely using your body. You can't change the color of your hair.
Say the words okay or no only. Superfluous speech comes from the evil Satan.
You hear this: If someone removes the eye of another person, remove his eye. If someone removes the tooth of another person, remove his tooth.
But I say this to you: If someone wants to destroy you, don't fight him. If he hits one arm, give your other arm.
If someone wants to badly acquire your shirt, give two shirts.
A soldier evilly causes this: You must hold his big bag on one road. But hold it on two roads.
If somebody wants something, give.
You hear this: Be good to your friends. Be bad to your enemies.
But I say this to you: Be good to your enemies. If someone is bad to you, want goodness for him. If you can, youll be like your Father in Heaven.
He causes this: The sun rises. Good people and bad people can see it. He causes this: Water comes down from above. Good people and bad people can feel it.
If you are good to your friends, God would want to give your something good for what? People who badly possess money are also good to their friends.
Everybody is good to his friends. Many people don't know God. But these people are good to their friends.
I'm saying this: You must be good. Be good like your Father in Heaven.
Listen! If you do something good, cause this: Other people can't see you. If people see, your Father won't give good things to you in Heaven.
If you give money to people with no money, don't speak. When many people give money, they make a lot of noise. They want this: Everyone sees. They want praise from everyone.
If you give to people with no money, cause this: Other people don't know.
Your Father can see and will be good to you.
When you talk to God, don't talk energetically. Many people talk energetically to God in the street and in the synagogue. They want this: People hear them.
When you talk to God, go to your house. Close the door. God is there. He can hear and will be good to you.
When you talk to God, don't talk like people of other religions. They say much the same things. They think this: If I say much the same things, god will hear me.
Don't be like them. Your Father knows your needs.
Talk like this:My Father, You are in Heaven.May your name be holy.
May your authority come.If you want something, may it be. May it be in this world and in Heaven.
Give the food of today to me.
May my evil be unimportant to you. Likewise the evil of other people is unimportant to me.
May I not want to be evil. Remove me from the evil Satan.
Indeed. If the evil of other people is unimportant to you, then your evil will be unimportant to God. But if the evil of other people is important to you, then your evil will be important to God.
If you don't eat, be good-looking. People of bad faith want to be bad-looking. They want this: People know this: They arent eating.
When you don't eat, wash your face. Be good-looking. Nobody knows this: You're not eating. But your Father knows and will be good to you.
Don't have good things on this Earth. Bugs and filth will destroy your things. People may evilly acquire your things from your house.
Have good things in Heaven. Bugs and filth can't destroy your things. People can't evilly acquire your things from your house.
Your spirit is beside your things.
Light comes to the body via the eye. If your eye is good, your body will be very lit.[I based the translation of this verse on other, more literal translations of Jesus words. The ESV, for example, reads, The eye is the lamp of the body. So, if your eye is healthy, your whole body will be full of light {...}]
But if your eye is bad, your body is dark. If your light becomes dark, this darkness is dark indeed.
You can't have two leaders. Youll come to think this: This leader is good. But the other leader is bad. You can't work for God and for money.
I say this: You need food and clothing. But don't feel bad because of this. Your existence is big. Food is little. The body is big. Clothing is little.
Look at the birds. They don't make the plants on the earth. But your heavenly Father gives food to them. Birds are minor. You are truly important to God. Bad feelings arent good for you.
You feel bad because of this: You need clothes. But why? Look at this colorful plant. It doesnt work. It doesnt make clothes. But King Solomon didnt have good clothes like the clothes of this flower.
This is just a plant. Soon somebody will burn it. But God still made good-looking clothes for this plant. If he makes clothes for a plant, hell make great clothes for you. You don't understand the greatness of God!
Don't say this: My food will come from where? And my clothes? People of other religions say that. Your Heavenly Father knows your needs.
Want this: God rules. If you want this, hell give all these other things to you.
Don't feel bad because of the things of tomorrow. Just look at today. Tomorrow look at tomorrow.
If the evil of other people is minor to you, then your evil will be minor to God. But if the evil of other people is major to you, your evil will be major to God.
You see a little dirt in the eye of someone else. But you don't feel the big stick in your eye. Why? If a big stick is in your eye, don't say this to other people: I want to remove that little dirt from your eye. You're bad! Remove the big stick from your eye. Once you remove it, you can see well and can remove the little dirt from the eye of the other person.
Don't give holy things to beasts. They will attack you. Don't give good things to animals. Their dirty feet will be on your things.
If you want, you will have. If you hunt, you will see. If you make noise, a door will open.
If someone speaks his desire, he will obtain. If someone hunts, he will see. If someone makes noise, a door will open.
Do you have children? If they want bread, do you give them a rock? If they want fish, do you give them a reptile? No!
You're bad. But you give good things to your children. God really gives abundantly to his people.
If you want something other people, give that to other people. Mosaic Law and the wise speakers say this.
Use the small door. A big door and many roads go to Hell. Many people are on those roads.
But the good door is small. If you travel on the good road, many things want to stop you. Many people can't travel on the good road.
Evil wise speakers exist. They're like good animals. But they're bad violent animals.
If you look at the deeds of these people, you will understand these people. Good things don't from bad people. Likewise good fruit doesnt come from bad trees.
A good tree gives good fruit. A bad tree gives bad fruit.
A good tree can't give bad fruit. A bad tree can't give good fruit.
People cut down bad trees and burn them.
If you see the deeds of these bad people, you will understand this: These people are bad.
Many people say this: I am Lord. But if you want to go to Heaven, be good to God.
On the final day, many people will say this to me: O Lord! We removed evil spirits and did many good things!
I say this to them: I don't know you. You're bad. Go away from me!
If you hear my speech and are good, you're like a wise man. A wise man builds his house on a rock. Much water comes from above. Much water is present. A strong wind is present. But the house of the wise man is on a rock and remains.
If you hear my speech and are bad, you're like a foolish man. The foolish man builds his house on weak ground. Much water comes from above. Much water is present. A strong wind is present. The house of the foolish man falls. Oh what a fall!